  Deep operator networks (DeepONets) are powerful architectures for fast and accurate emulation of complex dynamics. As their remarkable generalization capabilities are primarily enabled by their projection-based attribute, we investigate connections with low-rank techniques derived from the singular value decomposition (SVD). We demonstrate that some of the concepts behind proper orthogonal decomposition (POD)-neural networks can improve DeepONet's design and training phases. These ideas lead us to a methodology extension that we name SVD-DeepONet. Moreover, through multiple SVD analyses, we find that DeepONet inherits from its projection-based attribute strong inefficiencies in representing dynamics characterized by symmetries. Inspired by the work on shifted-POD, we develop flexDeepONet, an architecture enhancement that relies on a pre-transformation network for generating a moving reference frame and isolating the rigid components of the dynamics. In this way, the physics can be represented on a latent space free from rotations, translations, and stretches, and an accurate projection can be performed to a low-dimensional basis. In addition to flexibility and interpretability, the proposed perspectives increase DeepONet's generalization capabilities and computational efficiencies. For instance, we show flexDeepONet can accurately surrogate the dynamics of 19 variables in a combustion chemistry application by relying on 95% less trainable parameters than the ones of the vanilla architecture. We argue that DeepONet and SVD-based methods can reciprocally benefit from each other. In particular, the flexibility of the former in leveraging multiple data sources and multifidelity knowledge in the form of both unstructured data and physics-informed constraints has the potential to greatly extend the applicability of methodologies such as POD and PCA.

  Automatic speaker verification, like every other biometric system, is vulnerable to spoofing attacks. Using only a few minutes of recorded voice of a genuine client of a speaker verification system, attackers can develop a variety of spoofing attacks that might trick such systems. Detecting these attacks using the audio cues present in the recordings is an important challenge. Most existing spoofing detection systems depend on knowing the used spoofing technique. With this research, we aim at overcoming this limitation, by examining robust audio features, both traditional and those learned through an autoencoder, that are generalizable over different types of replay spoofing. Furthermore, we provide a detailed account of all the steps necessary in setting up state-of-the-art audio feature detection, pre-, and postprocessing, such that the (non-audio expert) machine learning researcher can implement such systems. Finally, we evaluate the performance of our robust replay speaker detection system with a wide variety and different combinations of both extracted and machine learned audio features on the `out in the wild' ASVspoof 2017 dataset. This dataset contains a variety of new spoofing configurations. Since our focus is on examining which features will ensure robustness, we base our system on a traditional Gaussian Mixture Model-Universal Background Model. We then systematically investigate the relative contribution of each feature set. The fused models, based on both the known audio features and the machine learned features respectively, have a comparable performance with an Equal Error Rate (EER) of 12. The final best performing model, which obtains an EER of 10.8, is a hybrid model that contains both known and machine learned features, thus revealing the importance of incorporating both types of features when developing a robust spoofing prediction model.

  Random Forest (RF) is a powerful supervised learner and has been popularly used in many applications such as bioinformatics.   In this work we propose the guided random forest (GRF) for feature selection. Similar to a feature selection method called guided regularized random forest (GRRF), GRF is built using the importance scores from an ordinary RF. However, the trees in GRRF are built sequentially, are highly correlated and do not allow for parallel computing, while the trees in GRF are built independently and can be implemented in parallel. Experiments on 10 high-dimensional gene data sets show that, with a fixed parameter value (without tuning the parameter), RF applied to features selected by GRF outperforms RF applied to all features on 9 data sets and 7 of them have significant differences at the 0.05 level. Therefore, both accuracy and interpretability are significantly improved. GRF selects more features than GRRF, however, leads to better classification accuracy. Note in this work the guided random forest is guided by the importance scores from an ordinary random forest, however, it can also be guided by other methods such as human insights (by specifying $\lambda_i$). GRF can be used in "RRF" v1.4 (and later versions), a package that also includes the regularized random forest methods.

  Motivated by drug design, we consider the best-arm identification problem in generalized linear bandits. More specifically, we assume each arm has a vector of covariates, there is an unknown vector of parameters that is common across the arms, and a generalized linear model captures the dependence of rewards on the covariate and parameter vectors. The problem is to minimize the number of arm pulls required to identify an arm that is sufficiently close to optimal with a sufficiently high probability. Building on recent progress in best-arm identification for linear bandits (Xu et al. 2018), we propose the first algorithm for best-arm identification for generalized linear bandits, provide theoretical guarantees on its accuracy and sampling efficiency, and evaluate its performance in various scenarios via simulation.

  Most existing approaches to autonomous driving fall into one of two categories: modular pipelines, that build an extensive model of the environment, and imitation learning approaches, that map images directly to control outputs. A recently proposed third paradigm, direct perception, aims to combine the advantages of both by using a neural network to learn appropriate low-dimensional intermediate representations. However, existing direct perception approaches are restricted to simple highway situations, lacking the ability to navigate intersections, stop at traffic lights or respect speed limits. In this work, we propose a direct perception approach which maps video input to intermediate representations suitable for autonomous navigation in complex urban environments given high-level directional inputs. Compared to state-of-the-art reinforcement and conditional imitation learning approaches, we achieve an improvement of up to 68 % in goal-directed navigation on the challenging CARLA simulation benchmark. In addition, our approach is the first to handle traffic lights and speed signs by using image-level labels only, as well as smooth car-following, resulting in a significant reduction of traffic accidents in simulation.

  This work proposes a framework for optimizing machine learning algorithms. The practicality of the framework is illustrated using an important case study from the healthcare domain, which is predicting the admission status of emergency department (ED) patients (e.g., admitted vs. discharged) using patient data at the time of triage. The proposed framework can mitigate the crowding problem by proactively planning the patient boarding process. A large retrospective dataset of patient records is obtained from the electronic health record database of all ED visits over three years from three major locations of a healthcare provider in the Midwest of the US. Three machine learning algorithms are proposed: T-XGB, T-ADAB, and T-MLP. T-XGB integrates extreme gradient boosting (XGB) and Tabu Search (TS), T-ADAB integrates Adaboost and TS, and T-MLP integrates multi-layer perceptron (MLP) and TS. The proposed algorithms are compared with the traditional algorithms: XGB, ADAB, and MLP, in which their parameters are tunned using grid search. The three proposed algorithms and the original ones are trained and tested using nine data groups that are obtained from different feature selection methods. In other words, 54 models are developed. Performance was evaluated using five measures: Area under the curve (AUC), sensitivity, specificity, F1, and accuracy. The results show that the newly proposed algorithms resulted in high AUC and outperformed the traditional algorithms. The T-ADAB performs the best among the newly developed algorithms. The AUC, sensitivity, specificity, F1, and accuracy of the best model are 95.4%, 99.3%, 91.4%, 95.2%, 97.2%, respectively.

  Under what conditions do the behaviors of players, who play a game repeatedly, converge to a Nash equilibrium? If one assumes that the players' behavior is a discrete-time or continuous-time rule whereby the current mixed strategy profile is mapped to the next, this becomes a problem in the theory of dynamical systems. We apply this theory, and in particular the concepts of chain recurrence, attractors, and Conley index, to prove a general impossibility result: there exist games for which any dynamics is bound to have starting points that do not end up at a Nash equilibrium. We also prove a stronger result for $\epsilon$-approximate Nash equilibria: there are games such that no game dynamics can converge (in an appropriate sense) to $\epsilon$-Nash equilibria, and in fact the set of such games has positive measure. Further numerical results demonstrate that this holds for any $\epsilon$ between zero and $0.09$. Our results establish that, although the notions of Nash equilibria (and its computation-inspired approximations) are universally applicable in all games, they are also fundamentally incomplete as predictors of long term behavior, regardless of the choice of dynamics.

  The first step in any voice recognition software is to determine what language a speaker is using, and ideally this process would be automated. The technique described in this paper, language identification for audio spectrograms (LIFAS), uses spectrograms generated from audio signals as inputs to a convolutional neural network (CNN) to be used for language identification. LIFAS requires minimal pre-processing on the audio signals as the spectrograms are generated during each batch as they are input to the network during training.   LIFAS utilizes deep learning tools that are shown to be successful on image processing tasks and applies it to audio signal classification. LIFAS performs binary language classification with an accuracy of 97\%, and multi-class classification with six languages at an accuracy of 89\% on 3.75 second audio clips.

  The identification of nonlinear dynamics from observations is essential for the alignment of the theoretical ideas and experimental data. The last, in turn, is often corrupted by the side effects and noise of different natures, so probabilistic approaches could give a more general picture of the process. At the same time, high-dimensional probabilities modeling is a challenging and data-intensive task. In this paper, we establish a parallel between the dynamical systems modeling and language modeling tasks. We propose a transformer-based model that incorporates geometrical properties of the data and provide an iterative training algorithm allowing the fine-grid approximation of the conditional probabilities of high-dimensional dynamical systems.

  The amount of data in real-time, such as time series and streaming data, available today continues to grow. Being able to analyze this data the moment it arrives can bring an immense added value. However, it also requires a lot of computational effort and new acceleration techniques. As a possible solution to this problem, this paper proposes a hardware architecture for Typicality and Eccentricity Data Analytic (TEDA) algorithm implemented on Field Programmable Gate Arrays (FPGA) for use in data streaming anomaly detection. TEDA is based on a new approach to outlier detection in the data stream context. In order to validate the proposals, results of the occupation and throughput of the proposed hardware are presented. Besides, the bit accurate simulation results are also presented. The project aims to Xilinx Virtex-6 xc6vlx240t-1ff1156 as the target FPGA.

  Switched systems are capable of modeling processes with underlying dynamics that may change abruptly over time. To achieve accurate modeling in practice, one may need a large number of modes, but this may in turn increase the model complexity drastically. Existing work on reducing system complexity mainly considers state space reduction, yet reducing the number of modes is less studied. In this work, we consider Markov jump linear systems (MJSs), a special class of switched systems where the active mode switches according to a Markov chain, and several issues associated with its mode complexity. Specifically, inspired by clustering techniques from unsupervised learning, we are able to construct a reduced MJS with fewer modes that approximates well the original MJS under various metrics. Furthermore, both theoretically and empirically, we show how one can use the reduced MJS to analyze stability and design controllers with significant reduction in computational cost while achieving guaranteed accuracy.

  The graph Laplacian regularization term is usually used in semi-supervised representation learning to provide graph structure information for a model $f(X)$. However, with the recent popularity of graph neural networks (GNNs), directly encoding graph structure $A$ into a model, i.e., $f(A, X)$, has become the more common approach. While we show that graph Laplacian regularization brings little-to-no benefit to existing GNNs, and propose a simple but non-trivial variant of graph Laplacian regularization, called Propagation-regularization (P-reg), to boost the performance of existing GNN models. We provide formal analyses to show that P-reg not only infuses extra information (that is not captured by the traditional graph Laplacian regularization) into GNNs, but also has the capacity equivalent to an infinite-depth graph convolutional network. We demonstrate that P-reg can effectively boost the performance of existing GNN models on both node-level and graph-level tasks across many different datasets.

  Imitation learning aims to extract high-performance policies from logged demonstrations of expert behavior. It is common to frame imitation learning as a supervised learning problem in which one fits a function approximator to the input-output mapping exhibited by the logged demonstrations (input observations to output actions). While the framing of imitation learning as a supervised input-output learning problem allows for applicability in a wide variety of settings, it is also an overly simplistic view of the problem in situations where the expert demonstrations provide much richer insight into expert behavior. For example, applications such as path navigation, robot manipulation, and strategy games acquire expert demonstrations via planning, search, or some other multi-step algorithm, revealing not just the output action to be imitated but also the procedure for how to determine this action. While these intermediate computations may use tools not available to the agent during inference (e.g., environment simulators), they are nevertheless informative as a way to explain an expert's mapping of state to actions. To properly leverage expert procedure information without relying on the privileged tools the expert may have used to perform the procedure, we propose procedure cloning, which applies supervised sequence prediction to imitate the series of expert computations. This way, procedure cloning learns not only what to do (i.e., the output action), but how and why to do it (i.e., the procedure). Through empirical analysis on navigation, simulated robotic manipulation, and game-playing environments, we show that imitating the intermediate computations of an expert's behavior enables procedure cloning to learn policies exhibiting significant generalization to unseen environment configurations, including those configurations for which running the expert's procedure directly is infeasible.

  In discriminative settings such as regression and classification there are two random variables at play, the inputs X and the targets Y. Here, we demonstrate that the Variational Information Bottleneck can be viewed as a compromise between fully empirical and fully Bayesian objectives, attempting to minimize the risks due to finite sampling of Y only. We argue that this approach provides some of the benefits of Bayes while requiring only some of the work.

  With the widespread use of intelligent systems, such as smart speakers, addressee recognition has become a concern in human-computer interaction, as more and more people expect such systems to understand complicated social scenes, including those outdoors, in cafeterias, and hospitals. Because previous studies typically focused only on pre-specified tasks with limited conversational situations such as controlling smart homes, we created a mock dataset called Addressee Recognition in Visual Scenes with Utterances (ARVSU) that contains a vast body of image variations in visual scenes with an annotated utterance and a corresponding addressee for each scenario. We also propose a multi-modal deep-learning-based model that takes different human cues, specifically eye gazes and transcripts of an utterance corpus, into account to predict the conversational addressee from a specific speaker's view in various real-life conversational scenarios. To the best of our knowledge, we are the first to introduce an end-to-end deep learning model that combines vision and transcripts of utterance for addressee recognition. As a result, our study suggests that future addressee recognition can reach the ability to understand human intention in many social situations previously unexplored, and our modality dataset is a first step in promoting research in this field.

  The human brain is able to learn, generalize, and predict crossmodal stimuli. Learning by expectation fine-tunes crossmodal processing at different levels, thus enhancing our power of generalization and adaptation in highly dynamic environments. In this paper, we propose a deep neural architecture trained by using expectation learning accounting for unsupervised learning tasks. Our learning model exhibits a self-adaptable behavior, setting the first steps towards the development of deep learning architectures for crossmodal stimuli association.

  To optimize the operation of a HVAC system with advanced techniques such as artificial neural network, previous studies usually need forecast information in their method. However, the forecast information inevitably contains errors all the time, which degrade the performance of the HVAC operation. Hence, in this study, we propose MILP-based imitation learning method to control a HVAC system without using the forecast information in order to reduce energy cost and maintain thermal comfort at a given level. Our proposed controller is a deep neural network (DNN) trained by using data labeled by a MILP solver with historical data. After training, our controller is used to control the HVAC system with real-time data. For comparison, we also develop a second method named forecast-based MILP which control the HVAC system using the forecast information. The performance of the two methods is verified by using real outdoor temperatures and real day-ahead prices in Detroit city, Michigan, United States. Numerical results clearly show that the performance of the MILP-based imitation learning is better than that of the forecast-based MILP method in terms of hourly power consumption, daily energy cost, and thermal comfort. Moreover, the difference between results of the MILP-based imitation learning method and optimal results is almost negligible. These optimal results are achieved only by using the MILP solver at the end of a day when we have full information on the weather and prices for the day.

  Phase retrieval algorithms have become an important component in many modern computational imaging systems. For instance, in the context of ptychography and speckle correlation imaging, they enable imaging past the diffraction limit and through scattering media, respectively. Unfortunately, traditional phase retrieval algorithms struggle in the presence of noise. Progress has been made recently on more robust algorithms using signal priors, but at the expense of limiting the range of supported measurement models (e.g., to Gaussian or coded diffraction patterns). In this work we leverage the regularization-by-denoising framework and a convolutional neural network denoiser to create prDeep, a new phase retrieval algorithm that is both robust and broadly applicable. We test and validate prDeep in simulation to demonstrate that it is robust to noise and can handle a variety of system models.   A MatConvNet implementation of prDeep is available at https://github.com/ricedsp/prDeep.

  High-level human instructions often correspond to behaviors with multiple implicit steps. In order for robots to be useful in the real world, they must be able to to reason over both motions and intermediate goals implied by human instructions. In this work, we propose a framework for learning representations that convert from a natural-language command to a sequence of intermediate goals for execution on a robot. A key feature of this framework is prospection, training an agent not just to correctly execute the prescribed command, but to predict a horizon of consequences of an action before taking it. We demonstrate the fidelity of plans generated by our framework when interpreting real, crowd-sourced natural language commands for a robot in simulated scenes.

  In the framework of prediction of individual sequences, sequential prediction methods are to be constructed that perform nearly as well as the best expert from a given class. We consider prediction strategies that compete with the class of switching strategies that can segment a given sequence into several blocks, and follow the advice of a different "base" expert in each block. As usual, the performance of the algorithm is measured by the regret defined as the excess loss relative to the best switching strategy selected in hindsight for the particular sequence to be predicted. In this paper we construct prediction strategies of low computational cost for the case where the set of base experts is large. In particular we provide a method that can transform any prediction algorithm $\A$ that is designed for the base class into a tracking algorithm. The resulting tracking algorithm can take advantage of the prediction performance and potential computational efficiency of $\A$ in the sense that it can be implemented with time and space complexity only $O(n^{\gamma} \ln n)$ times larger than that of $\A$, where $n$ is the time horizon and $\gamma \ge 0$ is a parameter of the algorithm. With $\A$ properly chosen, our algorithm achieves a regret bound of optimal order for $\gamma>0$, and only $O(\ln n)$ times larger than the optimal order for $\gamma=0$ for all typical regret bound types we examined. For example, for predicting binary sequences with switching parameters under the logarithmic loss, our method achieves the optimal $O(\ln n)$ regret rate with time complexity $O(n^{1+\gamma}\ln n)$ for any $\gamma\in (0,1)$.

  Risk stratification of lung nodules is a task of primary importance in lung cancer diagnosis. Any improvement in robust and accurate nodule characterization can assist in identifying cancer stage, prognosis, and improving treatment planning. In this study, we propose a 3D Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) based nodule characterization strategy. With a completely 3D approach, we utilize the volumetric information from a CT scan which would be otherwise lost in the conventional 2D CNN based approaches. In order to address the need for a large amount for training data for CNN, we resort to transfer learning to obtain highly discriminative features. Moreover, we also acquire the task dependent feature representation for six high-level nodule attributes and fuse this complementary information via a Multi-task learning (MTL) framework. Finally, we propose to incorporate potential disagreement among radiologists while scoring different nodule attributes in a graph regularized sparse multi-task learning. We evaluated our proposed approach on one of the largest publicly available lung nodule datasets comprising 1018 scans and obtained state-of-the-art results in regressing the malignancy scores.

  Oilfield development related decisions are made using reservoir simulation-based optimization study in which different production scenarios and well controls are compared. Such simulations are computationally expensive and so surrogate models are used to accelerate studies. Deep learning has been used in past to generate surrogates, but such models often fail to quantify prediction uncertainty and are not interpretable. In this work, beta-VAE based regression is proposed to generate simulation surrogates for use in optimization workflow. beta-VAE enables interpretable, factorized representation of decision variables in latent space, which is then further used for regression. Probabilistic dense layers are used to quantify prediction uncertainty and enable approximate Bayesian inference. Surrogate model developed using beta-VAE based regression finds interpretable and relevant latent representation. A reasonable value of beta ensures a good balance between factor disentanglement and reconstruction. Probabilistic dense layer helps in quantifying predicted uncertainty for objective function, which is then used to decide whether full-physics simulation is required for a case.

  Non-convex optimization problems are challenging to solve; the success and computational expense of a gradient descent algorithm or variant depend heavily on the initialization strategy. Often, either random initialization is used or initialization rules are carefully designed by exploiting the nature of the problem class. As a simple alternative to hand-crafted initialization rules, we propose an approach for learning "good" initialization rules from previous solutions. We provide theoretical guarantees that establish conditions that are sufficient in all cases and also necessary in some under which our approach performs better than random initialization. We apply our methodology to various non-convex problems such as generating adversarial examples, generating post hoc explanations for black-box machine learning models, and allocating communication spectrum, and show consistent gains over other initialization techniques.

  Reinforcement learning systems will to a greater and greater extent make decisions that significantly impact the well-being of humans, and it is therefore essential that these systems make decisions that conform to our expectations of morally good behavior. The morally good is often defined in causal terms, as in whether one's actions have in fact caused a particular outcome, and whether the outcome could have been anticipated. We propose an online reinforcement learning method that learns a policy under the constraint that the agent should not be the cause of harm. This is accomplished by defining cause using the theory of actual causation and assigning blame to the agent when its actions are the actual cause of an undesirable outcome. We conduct experiments on a toy ethical dilemma in which a natural choice of reward function leads to clearly undesirable behavior, but our method learns a policy that avoids being the cause of harmful behavior, demonstrating the soundness of our approach. Allowing an agent to learn while observing causal moral distinctions such as blame, opens the possibility to learning policies that better conform to our moral judgments.

  Hospital Readmissions within 30 days after discharge following Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) Surgery are substantial contributors to healthcare costs. Many predictive models were developed to identify risk factors for readmissions. However, majority of the existing models use statistical analysis techniques with data available at discharge. We propose an ensembled model to predict CABG readmissions using pre-discharge perioperative data and machine learning survival analysis techniques. Firstly, we applied fifty one potential readmission risk variables to Cox Proportional Hazard (CPH) survival regression univariate analysis. Fourteen of them turned out to be significant (with p value < 0.05), contributing to readmissions. Subsequently, we applied these 14 predictors to multivariate CPH model and Deep Learning Neural Network (NN) representation of the CPH model, DeepSurv. We validated this new ensembled model with 453 isolated adult CABG cases. Nine of the fourteen perioperative risk variables were identified as the most significant with Hazard Ratios (HR) of greater than 1.0. The concordance index metrics for CPH, DeepSurv, and ensembled models were then evaluated with training and validation datasets. Our ensembled model yielded promising results in terms of c-statistics, as we raised the the number of iterations and data set sizes. 30 day all-cause readmissions among isolated CABG patients can be predicted more effectively with perioperative pre-discharge data, using machine learning survival analysis techniques. Prediction accuracy levels could be improved further with deep learning algorithms.

  Smart and agile drones are fast becoming ubiquitous at the edge of the cloud. The usage of these drones are constrained by their limited power and compute capability. In this paper, we present a Transfer Learning (TL) based approach to reduce on-board computation required to train a deep neural network for autonomous navigation via Deep Reinforcement Learning for a target algorithmic performance. A library of 3D realistic meta-environments is manually designed using Unreal Gaming Engine and the network is trained end-to-end. These trained meta-weights are then used as initializers to the network in a test environment and fine-tuned for the last few fully connected layers. Variation in drone dynamics and environmental characteristics is carried out to show robustness of the approach. Using NVIDIA GPU profiler it was shown that the energy consumption and training latency is reduced by 3.7x and 1.8x respectively without significant degradation in the performance in terms of average distance traveled before crash i.e. Mean Safe Flight (MSF). The approach is also tested on a real environment using DJI Tello drone and similar results were reported.

  We investigate the ability of popular flow based methods to capture tail-properties of a target density by studying the increasing triangular maps used in these flow methods acting on a tractable source density. We show that the density quantile functions of the source and target density provide a precise characterization of the slope of transformation required to capture tails in a target density. We further show that any Lipschitz-continuous transport map acting on a source density will result in a density with similar tail properties as the source, highlighting the trade-off between a complex source density and a sufficiently expressive transformation to capture desirable properties of a target density. Subsequently, we illustrate that flow models like Real-NVP, MAF, and Glow as implemented originally lack the ability to capture a distribution with non-Gaussian tails. We circumvent this problem by proposing tail-adaptive flows consisting of a source distribution that can be learned simultaneously with the triangular map to capture tail-properties of a target density. We perform several synthetic and real-world experiments to compliment our theoretical findings.

  Mining complex data in the form of networks is of increasing interest in many scientific disciplines. Network communities correspond to densely connected subnetworks, and often represent key functional parts of real-world systems. In this work, we propose Silhouette Community Detection (SCD), an approach for detecting communities, based on clustering of network node embeddings, i.e. real valued representations of nodes derived from their neighborhoods. We investigate the performance of the proposed SCD approach on 234 synthetic networks, as well as on a real-life social network. Even though SCD is not based on any form of modularity optimization, it performs comparably or better than state-of-the-art community detection algorithms, such as the InfoMap and Louvain algorithms. Further, we demonstrate how SCD's outputs can be used along with domain ontologies in semantic subgroup discovery, yielding human-understandable explanations of communities detected in a real-life protein interaction network. Being embedding-based, SCD is widely applicable and can be tested out-of-the-box as part of many existing network learning and exploration pipelines.

  Identification of nonlinear dynamic systems remains a significant challenge across engineering. This work suggests an approach based on Bayesian filtering to extract and identify the contribution of an unknown nonlinear term in the system which can be seen as an alternative viewpoint on restoring force surface type approaches. To achieve this identification, the contribution which is the nonlinear restoring force is modelled, initially, as a Gaussian process in time. That Gaussian process is converted into a state-space model and combined with the linear dynamic component of the system. Then, by inference of the filtering and smoothing distributions, the internal states of the system and the nonlinear restoring force can be extracted. In possession of these states a nonlinear model can be constructed. The approach is demonstrated to be effective in both a simulated case study and on an experimental benchmark dataset.

  While the field of Quality-Diversity (QD) has grown into a distinct branch of stochastic optimization, a few problems, in particular locomotion and navigation tasks, have become de facto standards. Are such benchmarks sufficient? Are they representative of the key challenges faced by QD algorithms? Do they provide the ability to focus on one particular challenge by properly disentangling it from others? Do they have much predictive power in terms of scalability and generalization? Existing benchmarks are not standardized, and there is currently no MNIST equivalent for QD. Inspired by recent works on Reinforcement Learning benchmarks, we argue that the identification of challenges faced by QD methods and the development of targeted, challenging, scalable but affordable benchmarks is an important step. As an initial effort, we identify three problems that are challenging in sparse reward settings, and propose associated benchmarks: (1) Behavior metric bias, which can result from the use of metrics that do not match the structure of the behavior space. (2) Behavioral Plateaus, with varying characteristics, such that escaping them would require adaptive QD algorithms and (3) Evolvability Traps, where small variations in genotype result in large behavioral changes. The environments that we propose satisfy the properties listed above.

  For the last several decades, emotion research has attempted to identify a "biomarker" or consistent pattern of brain activity to characterize a single category of emotion (e.g., fear) that will remain consistent across all instances of that category, regardless of individual and context. In this study, we investigated variation rather than consistency during emotional experiences while people watched video clips chosen to evoke instances of specific emotion categories. Specifically, we developed a sequential probabilistic approach to model the temporal dynamics in a participant's brain activity during video viewing. We characterized brain states during these clips as distinct state occupancy periods between state transitions in blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) signal patterns. We found substantial variation in the state occupancy probability distributions across individuals watching the same video, supporting the hypothesis that when it comes to the brain correlates of emotional experience, variation may indeed be the norm.

  We present a method for microtubule tracking in electron microscopy volumes. Our method first identifies a sparse set of voxels that likely belong to microtubules. Similar to prior work, we then enumerate potential edges between these voxels, which we represent in a candidate graph. Tracks of microtubules are found by selecting nodes and edges in the candidate graph by solving a constrained optimization problem incorporating biological priors on microtubule structure. For this, we present a novel integer linear programming formulation, which results in speed-ups of three orders of magnitude and an increase of 53% in accuracy compared to prior art (evaluated on three 1.2 x 4 x 4$\mu$m volumes of Drosophila neural tissue). We also propose a scheme to solve the optimization problem in a block-wise fashion, which allows distributed tracking and is necessary to process very large electron microscopy volumes. Finally, we release a benchmark dataset for microtubule tracking, here used for training, testing and validation, consisting of eight 30 x 1000 x 1000 voxel blocks (1.2 x 4 x 4$\mu$m) of densely annotated microtubules in the CREMI data set (https://github.com/nilsec/micron).

  Hot-spot-based policing programs aim to deter crime through increased proactive patrols at high-crime locations. While most hot spot programs target easily identified chronic hot spots, we introduce models for predicting temporary hot spots to address effectiveness and equity objectives for crime prevention, and present findings from a crossover experiment evaluating application of hot spot predictions to prevent serious violent crime in Pittsburgh, PA. Over a 12-month experimental period, the Pittsburgh Bureau of Police assigned uniformed patrol officers to weekly predicted chronic and temporary hot spots of serious violent crimes comprising 0.5 percent of the city's area. We find statistically and practically significant reductions in serious violent crime counts within treatment hot spots as compared to control hot spots, with an overall reduction of 25.3 percent in the FBI-classified Part 1 Violent (P1V) crimes of homicide, rape, robbery, and aggravated assault, and a 39.7 percent reduction of African-American and other non-white victims of P1V crimes. We find that temporary hot spots increase spatial dispersion of patrols and have a greater percentage reduction in P1V crimes than chronic hot spots but fewer total number of crimes prevented. Only foot patrols, not car patrols, had statistically significant crime reductions in hot spots. We find no evidence of crime displacement; instead, we find weakly statistically significant spillover of crime prevention benefits to adjacent areas. In addition, we find no evidence that the community-oriented hot spot patrols produced over-policing arrests of minority or other populations.

  The interactive recommender systems involve users in the recommendation procedure by receiving timely user feedback to update the recommendation policy. Therefore, they are widely used in real application scenarios. Previous interactive recommendation methods primarily focus on learning users' personalized preferences on the relevance properties of an item set. However, the investigation of users' personalized preferences on the diversity properties of an item set is usually ignored. To overcome this problem, we propose the Linear Modular Dispersion Bandit (LMDB) framework, which is an online learning setting for optimizing a combination of modular functions and dispersion functions. Specifically, LMDB employs modular functions to model the relevance properties of each item, and dispersion functions to describe the diversity properties of an item set. Moreover, we also develop a learning algorithm, called Linear Modular Dispersion Hybrid (LMDH) to solve the LMDB problem and derive a gap-free bound on its n-step regret. Extensive experiments on real datasets are performed to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed LMDB framework in balancing the recommendation accuracy and diversity.

  The research question this report addresses is: how, and to what extent, those directly involved with the design, development and employment of a specific black box algorithm can be certain that it is not unlawfully discriminating (directly and/or indirectly) against particular persons with protected characteristics (e.g. gender, race and ethnicity)?

  This paper targets to a novel but practical recommendation problem named exact-K recommendation. It is different from traditional top-K recommendation, as it focuses more on (constrained) combinatorial optimization which will optimize to recommend a whole set of K items called card, rather than ranking optimization which assumes that "better" items should be put into top positions. Thus we take the first step to give a formal problem definition, and innovatively reduce it to Maximum Clique Optimization based on graph. To tackle this specific combinatorial optimization problem which is NP-hard, we propose Graph Attention Networks (GAttN) with a Multi-head Self-attention encoder and a decoder with attention mechanism. It can end-to-end learn the joint distribution of the K items and generate an optimal card rather than rank individual items by prediction scores. Then we propose Reinforcement Learning from Demonstrations (RLfD) which combines the advantages in behavior cloning and reinforcement learning, making it sufficient- and-efficient to train the model. Extensive experiments on three datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed GAttN with RLfD method, it outperforms several strong baselines with a relative improvement of 7.7% and 4.7% on average in Precision and Hit Ratio respectively, and achieves state-of-the-art (SOTA) performance for the exact-K recommendation problem.

  This paper considers the problem of nonstationary process monitoring under frequently varying operating conditions. Traditional approaches generally misidentify the normal dynamic deviations as faults and thus lead to high false alarms. Besides, they generally consider single relatively steady operating condition and suffer from the catastrophic forgetting issue when learning successive operating conditions. In this paper, recursive cointegration analysis (RCA) is first proposed to distinguish the real faults from normal systems changes, where the model is updated once a new normal sample arrives and can adapt to slow change of cointegration relationship. Based on the long-term equilibrium information extracted by RCA, the remaining short-term dynamic information is monitored by recursive principal component analysis (RPCA). Thus a comprehensive monitoring framework is built. When the system enters a new operating condition, the RCA-RPCA model is rebuilt to deal with the new condition. Meanwhile, elastic weight consolidation (EWC) is employed to settle the `catastrophic forgetting' issue inherent in RPCA, where significant information of influential parameters is enhanced to avoid the abrupt performance degradation for similar modes. The effectiveness of the proposed method is illustrated by a practical industrial system.

  Imposing physical constraints on neural networks as a method of knowledge embedding has achieved great progress in solving physical problems described by governing equations. However, for many engineering problems, governing equations often have complex forms, including complex partial derivatives or stochastic physical fields, which results in significant inconveniences from the perspective of implementation. In this paper, a scientific machine learning framework, called AutoKE, is proposed, and a reservoir flow problem is taken as an instance to demonstrate that this framework can effectively automate the process of embedding physical knowledge. In AutoKE, an emulator comprised of deep neural networks (DNNs) is built for predicting the physical variables of interest. An arbitrarily complex equation can be parsed and automatically converted into a computational graph through the equation parser module, and the fitness of the emulator to the governing equation is evaluated via automatic differentiation. Furthermore, the fixed weights in the loss function are substituted with adaptive weights by incorporating the Lagrangian dual method. Neural architecture search (NAS) is also introduced into the AutoKE to select an optimal network architecture of the emulator according to the specific problem. Finally, we apply transfer learning to enhance the scalability of the emulator. In experiments, the framework is verified by a series of physical problems in which it can automatically embed physical knowledge into an emulator without heavy hand-coding. The results demonstrate that the emulator can not only make accurate predictions, but also be applied to similar problems with high efficiency via transfer learning.

  We present a suite of algorithms and tools for model-predictive control of sensor/actuator systems with embedded microcontroller units (MCU). These MCUs can be colocated with sensors and actuators, thereby enabling a new class of smart composites capable of autonomous behavior that does not require an external computer. In this approach, kinematics are learned using a neural network model from offline data and compiled into MCU code using nn4mc, an open-source tool. Online Newton-Raphson optimization solves for the control input. Shallow neural network models applied to 1D sensor signals allow for reduced model sizes and increased control loop frequencies. We validate this approach on a simulated mass-spring-damper system and two experimental setups with different sensing, actuation, and computational hardware: a tendon-based platform with embedded optical lace sensors and a HASEL-based platform with magnetic sensors. Experimental results indicate effective high-bandwidth tracking of reference paths (120 Hz and higher) with a small memory footprint (less than or equal to 6.4% of available flash). The measured path following error does not exceed 2 mm in the tendon-based platform, and the predicted path following error does not exceed 1 mm in the HASEL-based platform. This controller code's mean power consumption in an ARM Cortex-M4 computer is 45.4 mW. This control approach is also compatible with Tensorflow Lite models and equivalent compilers. Embedded intelligence in composite materials enables a new class of composites that infuse intelligence into structures and systems, making them capable of responding to environmental stimuli using their proprioception.

With the representation learning capability of the deep learning models, deep embedded multi-view clustering (MVC) achieves impressive performance in many scenarios and has become increasingly popular in recent years. Although great progress has been made in this field, most existing methods merely focus on learning the latent representations and ignore that learning the latent graph of nodes also provides available information for the clustering task. To address this issue, in this paper we propose Deep Embedded Multi-view Clustering via Jointly Learning Latent Representations and Graphs (DMVCJ), which utilizes the latent graphs to promote the performance of deep embedded MVC models from two aspects. Firstly, by learning the latent graphs and feature representations jointly, the graph convolution network (GCN) technique becomes available for our model. With the capability of GCN in exploiting the information from both graphs and features, the clustering performance of our model is significantly promoted. Secondly, based on the adjacency relations of nodes shown in the latent graphs, we design a sample-weighting strategy to alleviate the noisy issue, and further improve the effectiveness and robustness of the model. Experimental results on different types of real-world multi-view datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of DMVCJ.

  Nowadays, thanks to Web 2.0 technologies, people have the possibility to generate and spread contents on different social media in a very easy way. In this context, the evaluation of the quality of the information that is available online is becoming more and more a crucial issue. In fact, a constant flow of contents is generated every day by often unknown sources, which are not certified by traditional authoritative entities. This requires the development of appropriate methodologies that can evaluate in a systematic way these contents, based on `objective' aspects connected with them. This would help individuals, who nowadays tend to increasingly form their opinions based on what they read online and on social media, to come into contact with information that is actually useful and verified. Wikipedia is nowadays one of the biggest online resources on which users rely as a source of information. The amount of collaboratively generated content that is sent to the online encyclopedia every day can let to the possible creation of low-quality articles (and, consequently, misinformation) if not properly monitored and revised. For this reason, in this paper, the problem of automatically assessing the quality of Wikipedia articles is considered. In particular, the focus is on the analysis of hand-crafted features that can be employed by supervised machine learning techniques to perform the classification of Wikipedia articles on qualitative bases. With respect to prior literature, a wider set of characteristics connected to Wikipedia articles are taken into account and illustrated in detail. Evaluations are performed by considering a labeled dataset provided in a prior work, and different supervised machine learning algorithms, which produced encouraging results with respect to the considered features.

  It is well-known that malware constantly evolves so as to evade detection and this causes the entire malware population to be non-stationary. Contrary to this fact, prior works on machine learning based Android malware detection have assumed that the distribution of the observed malware characteristics (i.e., features) do not change over time. In this work, we address the problem of malware population drift and propose a novel online machine learning based framework, named DroidOL to handle it and effectively detect malware. In order to perform accurate detection, security-sensitive behaviors are captured from apps in the form of inter-procedural control-flow sub-graph features using a state-of-the-art graph kernel. In order to perform scalable detection and to adapt to the drift and evolution in malware population, an online passive-aggressive classifier is used.   In a large-scale comparative analysis with more than 87,000 apps, DroidOL achieves 84.29% accuracy outperforming two state-of-the-art malware techniques by more than 20% in their typical batch learning setting and more than 3% when they are continuously re-trained. Our experimental findings strongly indicate that online learning based approaches are highly suitable for real-world malware detection.

  Modeling dynamical systems, both for control purposes and to make predictions about their behavior, is ubiquitous in science and engineering. Predictive state representations (PSRs) are a recently introduced class of models for discrete-time dynamical systems. The key idea behind PSRs and the closely related OOMs (Jaeger's observable operator models) is to represent the state of the system as a set of predictions of observable outcomes of experiments one can do in the system. This makes PSRs rather different from history-based models such as nth-order Markov models and hidden-state-based models such as HMMs and POMDPs. We introduce an interesting construct, the systemdynamics matrix, and show how PSRs can be derived simply from it. We also use this construct to show formally that PSRs are more general than both nth-order Markov models and HMMs/POMDPs. Finally, we discuss the main difference between PSRs and OOMs and conclude with directions for future work.

  We introduce ProtoPool, an interpretable image classification model with a pool of prototypes shared by the classes. The training is more straightforward than in the existing methods because it does not require the pruning stage. It is obtained by introducing a fully differentiable assignment of prototypes to particular classes. Moreover, we introduce a novel focal similarity function to focus the model on the rare foreground features. We show that ProtoPool obtains state-of-the-art accuracy on the CUB-200-2011 and the Stanford Cars datasets, substantially reducing the number of prototypes. We provide a theoretical analysis of the method and a user study to show that our prototypes are more distinctive than those obtained with competitive methods.

  Topic models have proven to be a useful tool for discovering latent structures in document collections. However, most document collections often come as temporal streams and thus several aspects of the latent structure such as the number of topics, the topics' distribution and popularity are time-evolving. Several models exist that model the evolution of some but not all of the above aspects. In this paper we introduce infinite dynamic topic models, iDTM, that can accommodate the evolution of all the aforementioned aspects. Our model assumes that documents are organized into epochs, where the documents within each epoch are exchangeable but the order between the documents is maintained across epochs. iDTM allows for unbounded number of topics: topics can die or be born at any epoch, and the representation of each topic can evolve according to a Markovian dynamics. We use iDTM to analyze the birth and evolution of topics in the NIPS community and evaluated the efficacy of our model on both simulated and real datasets with favorable outcome.

  Reading is integral to everyday life, and yet learning to read is a struggle for many young learners. During lessons, teachers can use comprehension questions to increase engagement, test reading skills, and improve retention. Historically such questions were written by skilled teachers, but recently language models have been used to generate comprehension questions. However, many existing Question Generation (QG) systems focus on generating literal questions from the text, and have no way to control the type of the generated question. In this paper, we study QG for reading comprehension where inferential questions are critical and extractive techniques cannot be used. We propose a two-step model (HTA-WTA) that takes advantage of previous datasets, and can generate questions for a specific targeted comprehension skill. We propose a new reading comprehension dataset that contains questions annotated with story-based reading comprehension skills (SBRCS), allowing for a more complete reader assessment. Across several experiments, our results show that HTA-WTA outperforms multiple strong baselines on this new dataset. We show that the HTA-WTA model tests for strong SCRS by asking deep inferential questions.

  In 2014, Amin, Heidari, and Kearns proved that tree networks can be learned by observing only the infected set of vertices of the contagion process under the independent cascade model, in both the active and passive query models. They also showed empirically that simple extensions of their algorithms work on sparse networks. In this work, we focus on the active model. We prove that a simple modification of Amin et al.'s algorithm works on more general classes of networks, namely (i) networks with large girth and low path growth rate, and (ii) networks with bounded degree. This also provides partial theoretical explanation for Amin et al.'s experiments on sparse networks.

  The inner-product navigable small world graph (ip-NSW) represents the state-of-the-art method for approximate maximum inner product search (MIPS) and it can achieve an order of magnitude speedup over the fastest baseline. However, to date it is still unclear where its exceptional performance comes from. In this paper, we show that there is a strong norm bias in the MIPS problem, which means that the large norm items are very likely to become the result of MIPS. Then we explain the good performance of ip-NSW as matching the norm bias of the MIPS problem - large norm items have big in-degrees in the ip-NSW proximity graph and a walk on the graph spends the majority of computation on these items, thus effectively avoids unnecessary computation on small norm items. Furthermore, we propose the ip-NSW+ algorithm, which improves ip-NSW by introducing an additional angular proximity graph. Search is first conducted on the angular graph to find the angular neighbors of a query and then the MIPS neighbors of these angular neighbors are used to initialize the candidate pool for search on the inner-product proximity graph. Experiment results show that ip-NSW+ consistently and significantly outperforms ip-NSW and provides more robust performance under different data distributions.

  Predicting when and where events will occur in cities, like taxi pick-ups, crimes, and vehicle collisions, is a challenging and important problem with many applications in fields such as urban planning, transportation optimization and location-based marketing. Though many point processes have been proposed to model events in a continuous spatio-temporal space, none of them allow for the consideration of the rich contextual factors that affect event occurrence, such as weather, social activities, geographical characteristics, and traffic. In this paper, we propose \textsf{DMPP} (Deep Mixture Point Processes), a point process model for predicting spatio-temporal events with the use of rich contextual information; a key advance is its incorporation of the heterogeneous and high-dimensional context available in image and text data. Specifically, we design the intensity of our point process model as a mixture of kernels, where the mixture weights are modeled by a deep neural network. This formulation allows us to automatically learn the complex nonlinear effects of the contextual factors on event occurrence. At the same time, this formulation makes analytical integration over the intensity, which is required for point process estimation, tractable. We use real-world data sets from different domains to demonstrate that DMPP has better predictive performance than existing methods.

  Despite the empirical success of meta reinforcement learning (meta-RL), there are still a number poorly-understood discrepancies between theory and practice. Critically, biased gradient estimates are almost always implemented in practice, whereas prior theory on meta-RL only establishes convergence under unbiased gradient estimates. In this work, we investigate such a discrepancy. In particular, (1) We show that unbiased gradient estimates have variance $\Theta(N)$ which linearly depends on the sample size $N$ of the inner loop updates; (2) We propose linearized score function (LSF) gradient estimates, which have bias $\mathcal{O}(1/\sqrt{N})$ and variance $\mathcal{O}(1/N)$; (3) We show that most empirical prior work in fact implements variants of the LSF gradient estimates. This implies that practical algorithms "accidentally" introduce bias to achieve better performance; (4) We establish theoretical guarantees for the LSF gradient estimates in meta-RL regarding its convergence to stationary points, showing better dependency on $N$ than prior work when $N$ is large.

  Learning sparse linear models with two-way interactions is desirable in many application domains such as genomics. l1-regularised linear models are popular to estimate sparse models, yet standard implementations fail to address specifically the quadratic explosion of candidate two-way interactions in high dimensions, and typically do not scale to genetic data with hundreds of thousands of features. Here we present WHInter, a working set algorithm to solve large l1-regularised problems with two-way interactions for binary design matrices. The novelty of WHInter stems from a new bound to efficiently identify working sets while avoiding to scan all features, and on fast computations inspired from solutions to the maximum inner product search problem. We apply WHInter to simulated and real genetic data and show that it is more scalable and two orders of magnitude faster than the state of the art.

  Recommender systems use algorithms to provide users with product or service recommendations. Recently, these systems have been using machine learning algorithms from the field of artificial intelligence. However, choosing a suitable machine learning algorithm for a recommender system is difficult because of the number of algorithms described in the literature. Researchers and practitioners developing recommender systems are left with little information about the current approaches in algorithm usage. Moreover, the development of a recommender system using a machine learning algorithm often has problems and open questions that must be evaluated, so software engineers know where to focus research efforts. This paper presents a systematic review of the literature that analyzes the use of machine learning algorithms in recommender systems and identifies research opportunities for software engineering research. The study concludes that Bayesian and decision tree algorithms are widely used in recommender systems because of their relative simplicity, and that requirement and design phases of recommender system development appear to offer opportunities for further research.

  We revisit the finite time analysis of policy gradient methods in the one of the simplest settings: finite state and action MDPs with a policy class consisting of all stochastic policies and with exact gradient evaluations. There has been some recent work viewing this setting as an instance of smooth non-linear optimization problems and showing sub-linear convergence rates with small step-sizes. Here, we take a different perspective based on connections with policy iteration and show that many variants of policy gradient methods succeed with large step-sizes and attain a linear rate of convergence.

  The ability to learn in dynamic, nonstationary environments without forgetting previous knowledge, also known as Continual Learning (CL), is a key enabler for scalable and trustworthy deployments of adaptive solutions. While the importance of continual learning is largely acknowledged in machine vision and reinforcement learning problems, this is mostly under-documented for sequence processing tasks. This work proposes a Recurrent Neural Network (RNN) model for CL that is able to deal with concept drift in input distribution without forgetting previously acquired knowledge. We also implement and test a popular CL approach, Elastic Weight Consolidation (EWC), on top of two different types of RNNs. Finally, we compare the performances of our enhanced architecture against EWC and RNNs on a set of standard CL benchmarks, adapted to the sequential data processing scenario. Results show the superior performance of our architecture and highlight the need for special solutions designed to address CL in RNNs.

  Within the field of electromyography-based (EMG) gesture recognition, disparities exist between the offline accuracy reported in the literature and the real-time usability of a classifier. This gap mainly stems from two factors: 1) The absence of a controller, making the data collected dissimilar to actual control. 2) The difficulty of including the four main dynamic factors (gesture intensity, limb position, electrode shift, and transient changes in the signal), as including their permutations drastically increases the amount of data to be recorded. Contrarily, online datasets are limited to the exact EMG-based controller used to record them, necessitating the recording of a new dataset for each control method or variant to be tested. Consequently, this paper proposes a new type of dataset to serve as an intermediate between offline and online datasets, by recording the data using a real-time experimental protocol. The protocol, performed in virtual reality, includes the four main dynamic factors and uses an EMG-independent controller to guide movements. This EMG-independent feedback ensures that the user is in-the-loop during recording, while enabling the resulting dynamic dataset to be used as an EMG-based benchmark. The dataset is comprised of 20 able-bodied participants completing three to four sessions over a period of 14 to 21 days. The ability of the dynamic dataset to serve as a benchmark is leveraged to evaluate the impact of different recalibration techniques for long-term (across-day) gesture recognition, including a novel algorithm, named TADANN. TADANN consistently and significantly (p<0.05) outperforms using fine-tuning as the recalibration technique.

  Federated learning (FL) algorithms usually sample a fraction of clients in each round (partial participation) when the number of participants is large and the server's communication bandwidth is limited. Recent works on the convergence analysis of FL have focused on unbiased client sampling, e.g., sampling uniformly at random, which suffers from slow wall-clock time for convergence due to high degrees of system heterogeneity and statistical heterogeneity. This paper aims to design an adaptive client sampling algorithm that tackles both system and statistical heterogeneity to minimize the wall-clock convergence time. We obtain a new tractable convergence bound for FL algorithms with arbitrary client sampling probabilities. Based on the bound, we analytically establish the relationship between the total learning time and sampling probabilities, which results in a non-convex optimization problem for training time minimization. We design an efficient algorithm for learning the unknown parameters in the convergence bound and develop a low-complexity algorithm to approximately solve the non-convex problem. Experimental results from both hardware prototype and simulation demonstrate that our proposed sampling scheme significantly reduces the convergence time compared to several baseline sampling schemes. Notably, our scheme in hardware prototype spends 73% less time than the uniform sampling baseline for reaching the same target loss.

  Session based model is widely used in recommend system. It use the user click sequence as input of a Recurrent Neural Network (RNN), and get the output of the RNN network as the vector embedding of the session, and use the inner product of the vector embedding of session and the vector embedding of the next item as the score that is the metric of the interest to the next item. This method can be used for the "match" stage for the recommendation system whose item number is very big by using some index method like KD-Tree or Ball-Tree and etc.. But this method repudiate the variousness of the interest of user in a session. We generated the model to modify the vector embedding of session to a symmetric matrix embedding, that is equivalent to a quadratic form on the vector space of items. The score is builded as the value of the vector embedding of next item under the quadratic form. The eigenvectors of the symmetric matrix embedding corresponding to the positive eigenvalues are conjectured to represent the interests of user in the session. This method can be used for the "match" stage also. The experiments show that this method is better than the method of vector embedding.

  This manuscripts contains the proofs for "A Primal-Dual Message-Passing Algorithm for Approximated Large Scale Structured Prediction".

  We present Optimal Completion Distillation (OCD), a training procedure for optimizing sequence to sequence models based on edit distance. OCD is efficient, has no hyper-parameters of its own, and does not require pretraining or joint optimization with conditional log-likelihood. Given a partial sequence generated by the model, we first identify the set of optimal suffixes that minimize the total edit distance, using an efficient dynamic programming algorithm. Then, for each position of the generated sequence, we use a target distribution that puts equal probability on the first token of all the optimal suffixes. OCD achieves the state-of-the-art performance on end-to-end speech recognition, on both Wall Street Journal and Librispeech datasets, achieving $9.3\%$ WER and $4.5\%$ WER respectively.

  Nonnegative matrix factorization (NMF) has been widely studied in recent years due to its effectiveness in representing nonnegative data with parts-based representations. For NMF, a sparser solution implies better parts-based representation.However, current NMF methods do not always generate sparse solutions.In this paper, we propose a new NMF method with log-norm imposed on the factor matrices to enhance the sparseness.Moreover, we propose a novel column-wisely sparse norm, named $\ell_{2,\log}$-(pseudo) norm to enhance the robustness of the proposed method.The $\ell_{2,\log}$-(pseudo) norm is invariant, continuous, and differentiable.For the $\ell_{2,\log}$ regularized shrinkage problem, we derive a closed-form solution, which can be used for other general problems.Efficient multiplicative updating rules are developed for the optimization, which theoretically guarantees the convergence of the objective value sequence.Extensive experimental results confirm the effectiveness of the proposed method, as well as the enhanced sparseness and robustness.

  We study the problem of multiset prediction. The goal of multiset prediction is to train a predictor that maps an input to a multiset consisting of multiple items. Unlike existing problems in supervised learning, such as classification, ranking and sequence generation, there is no known order among items in a target multiset, and each item in the multiset may appear more than once, making this problem extremely challenging. In this paper, we propose a novel multiset loss function by viewing this problem from the perspective of sequential decision making. The proposed multiset loss function is empirically evaluated on two families of datasets, one synthetic and the other real, with varying levels of difficulty, against various baseline loss functions including reinforcement learning, sequence, and aggregated distribution matching loss functions. The experiments reveal the effectiveness of the proposed loss function over the others.

  Class-incremental learning of deep networks sequentially increases the number of classes to be classified. During training, the network has only access to data of one task at a time, where each task contains several classes. In this setting, networks suffer from catastrophic forgetting which refers to the drastic drop in performance on previous tasks. The vast majority of methods have studied this scenario for classification networks, where for each new task the classification layer of the network must be augmented with additional weights to make room for the newly added classes. Embedding networks have the advantage that new classes can be naturally included into the network without adding new weights. Therefore, we study incremental learning for embedding networks. In addition, we propose a new method to estimate the drift, called semantic drift, of features and compensate for it without the need of any exemplars. We approximate the drift of previous tasks based on the drift that is experienced by current task data. We perform experiments on fine-grained datasets, CIFAR100 and ImageNet-Subset. We demonstrate that embedding networks suffer significantly less from catastrophic forgetting. We outperform existing methods which do not require exemplars and obtain competitive results compared to methods which store exemplars. Furthermore, we show that our proposed SDC when combined with existing methods to prevent forgetting consistently improves results.

  We humans seem to have an innate understanding of the asymmetric progression of time, which we use to efficiently and safely perceive and manipulate our environment. Drawing inspiration from that, we address the problem of learning an arrow of time in a Markov (Decision) Process. We illustrate how a learned arrow of time can capture meaningful information about the environment, which in turn can be used to measure reachability, detect side-effects and to obtain an intrinsic reward signal. We show empirical results on a selection of discrete and continuous environments, and demonstrate for a class of stochastic processes that the learned arrow of time agrees reasonably well with a known notion of an arrow of time given by the celebrated Jordan-Kinderlehrer-Otto result.

  Agriculture 3.0 and 4.0 have gradually introduced service robotics and automation into several agricultural processes, mostly improving crops quality and seasonal yield. Row-based crops are the perfect settings to test and deploy smart machines capable of monitoring and manage the harvest. In this context, global path generation is essential either for ground or aerial vehicles, and it is the starting point for every type of mission plan. Nevertheless, little attention has been currently given to this problem by the research community and global path generation automation is still far to be solved. In order to generate a viable path for an autonomous machine, the presented research proposes a feature learning fully convolutional model capable of estimating waypoints given an occupancy grid map. In particular, we apply the proposed data-driven methodology to the specific case of row-based crops with the general objective to generate a global path able to cover the extension of the crop completely. Extensive experimentation with a custom made synthetic dataset and real satellite-derived images of different scenarios have proved the effectiveness of our methodology and demonstrated the feasibility of an end-to-end and completely autonomous global path planner.

  Finding general evaluation metrics for unsupervised representation learning techniques is a challenging open research question, which recently has become more and more necessary due to the increasing interest in unsupervised methods. Even though these methods promise beneficial representation characteristics, most approaches currently suffer from the objective function mismatch. This mismatch states that the performance on a desired target task can decrease when the unsupervised pretext task is learned too long - especially when both tasks are ill-posed. In this work, we build upon the widely used linear evaluation protocol and define new general evaluation metrics to quantitatively capture the objective function mismatch and the more generic metrics mismatch. We discuss the usability and stability of our protocols on a variety of pretext and target tasks and study mismatches in a wide range of experiments. Thereby we disclose dependencies of the objective function mismatch across several pretext and target tasks with respect to the pretext model's representation size, target model complexity, pretext and target augmentations as well as pretext and target task types. In our experiments, we find that the objective function mismatch reduces performance by ~0.1-5.0% for Cifar10, Cifar100 and PCam in many setups, and up to ~25-59% in extreme cases for the 3dshapes dataset.

  We study the problem of training a model that must obey demographic fairness conditions when the sensitive features are not available at training time -- in other words, how can we train a model to be fair by race when we don't have data about race? We adopt a fairness pipeline perspective, in which an "upstream" learner that does have access to the sensitive features will learn a proxy model for these features from the other attributes. The goal of the proxy is to allow a general "downstream" learner -- with minimal assumptions on their prediction task -- to be able to use the proxy to train a model that is fair with respect to the true sensitive features. We show that obeying multiaccuracy constraints with respect to the downstream model class suffices for this purpose, provide sample- and oracle efficient-algorithms and generalization bounds for learning such proxies, and conduct an experimental evaluation. In general, multiaccuracy is much easier to satisfy than classification accuracy, and can be satisfied even when the sensitive features are hard to predict.

  Models used in modern planning problems to simulate outcomes of real world action executions are becoming increasingly complex, ranging from simulators that do physics-based reasoning to precomputed analytical motion primitives. However, robots operating in the real world often face situations not modeled by these models before execution. This imperfect modeling can lead to highly suboptimal or even incomplete behavior during execution. In this paper, we propose CMAX an approach for interleaving planning and execution. CMAX adapts its planning strategy online during real-world execution to account for any discrepancies in dynamics during planning, without requiring updates to the dynamics of the model. This is achieved by biasing the planner away from transitions whose dynamics are discovered to be inaccurately modeled, thereby leading to robot behavior that tries to complete the task despite having an inaccurate model. We provide provable guarantees on the completeness and efficiency of the proposed planning and execution framework under specific assumptions on the model, for both small and large state spaces. Our approach CMAX is shown to be efficient empirically in simulated robotic tasks including 4D planar pushing, and in real robotic experiments using PR2 involving a 3D pick-and-place task where the mass of the object is incorrectly modeled, and a 7D arm planning task where one of the joints is not operational leading to discrepancy in dynamics. The video of our physical robot experiments can be found at https://youtu.be/eQmAeWIhjO8

  Kernel methods offer the flexibility to learn complex relationships in modern, large data sets while enjoying strong theoretical guarantees on quality. Unfortunately, these methods typically require cubic running time in the data set size, a prohibitive cost in the large-data setting. Random feature maps (RFMs) and the Nystrom method both consider low-rank approximations to the kernel matrix as a potential solution. But, in order to achieve desirable theoretical guarantees, the former may require a prohibitively large number of features J+, and the latter may be prohibitively expensive for high-dimensional problems. We propose to combine the simplicity and generality of RFMs with a data-dependent feature selection scheme to achieve desirable theoretical approximation properties of Nystrom with just O(log J+) features. Our key insight is to begin with a large set of random features, then reduce them to a small number of weighted features in a data-dependent, computationally efficient way, while preserving the statistical guarantees of using the original large set of features. We demonstrate the efficacy of our method with theory and experiments--including on a data set with over 50 million observations. In particular, we show that our method achieves small kernel matrix approximation error and better test set accuracy with provably fewer random features than state-of-the-art methods.

  We present a black-box adversarial attack algorithm which sets new state-of-the-art model evasion rates for query efficiency in the $\ell_\infty$ and $\ell_2$ metrics, where only loss-oracle access to the model is available. On two public black-box attack challenges, the algorithm achieves the highest evasion rate, surpassing all of the submitted attacks. Similar performance is observed on a model that is secure against substitute-model attacks. For standard models trained on the MNIST, CIFAR10, and IMAGENET datasets, averaged over the datasets and metrics, the algorithm is 3.8x less failure-prone, and spends in total 2.5x fewer queries than the current state-of-the-art attacks combined given a budget of 10, 000 queries per attack attempt. Notably, it requires no hyperparameter tuning or any data/time-dependent prior. The algorithm exploits a new approach, namely sign-based rather than magnitude-based gradient estimation. This shifts the estimation from continuous to binary black-box optimization. With three properties of the directional derivative, we examine three approaches to adversarial attacks. This yields a superior algorithm breaking a standard MNIST model using just 12 queries on average!

  The fruit fly Drosophila's olfactory circuit has inspired a new locality sensitive hashing (LSH) algorithm, FlyHash. In contrast with classical LSH algorithms that produce low dimensional hash codes, FlyHash produces sparse high-dimensional hash codes and has also been shown to have superior empirical performance compared to classical LSH algorithms in similarity search. However, FlyHash uses random projections and cannot learn from data. Building on inspiration from FlyHash and the ubiquity of sparse expansive representations in neurobiology, our work proposes a novel hashing algorithm BioHash that produces sparse high dimensional hash codes in a data-driven manner. We show that BioHash outperforms previously published benchmarks for various hashing methods. Since our learning algorithm is based on a local and biologically plausible synaptic plasticity rule, our work provides evidence for the proposal that LSH might be a computational reason for the abundance of sparse expansive motifs in a variety of biological systems. We also propose a convolutional variant BioConvHash that further improves performance. From the perspective of computer science, BioHash and BioConvHash are fast, scalable and yield compressed binary representations that are useful for similarity search.

  Classification with a large number of classes is a key problem in machine learning and corresponds to many real-world applications like tagging of images or textual documents in social networks. If one-vs-all methods usually reach top performance in this context, these approaches suffer from a high inference complexity, linear w.r.t the number of categories. Different models based on the notion of binary codes have been proposed to overcome this limitation, achieving in a sublinear inference complexity. But they a priori need to decide which binary code to associate to which category before learning using more or less complex heuristics. We propose a new end-to-end model which aims at simultaneously learning to associate binary codes with categories, but also learning to map inputs to binary codes. This approach called Deep Stochastic Neural Codes (DSNC) keeps the sublinear inference complexity but do not need any a priori tuning. Experimental results on different datasets show the effectiveness of the approach w.r.t baseline methods.

  Many online applications running on live traffic are powered by machine learning models, for which training, validation, and hyper-parameter tuning are conducted on historical data. However, it is common for models demonstrating strong performance in offline analysis to yield poorer performance when deployed online. This problem is a consequence of the difficulty of training on historical data in non-stationary environments. Moreover, the machine learning metrics used for model selection may not sufficiently correlate with real-world business metrics used to determine the success of the applications being tested. These problems are particularly prominent in the Real-Time Bidding (RTB) domain, in which ML models power bidding strategies, and a change in models will likely affect performance of the advertising campaigns. In this work, we present Automatic Model Selector (AMS), a system for scalable online selection of RTB bidding strategies based on real-world performance metrics. AMS employs Multi-Armed Bandits (MAB) to near-simultaneously run and evaluate multiple models against live traffic, allocating the most traffic to the best-performing models while decreasing traffic to those with poorer online performance, thereby minimizing the impact of inferior models on overall campaign performance. The reliance on offline data is avoided, instead making model selections on a case-by-case basis according to actionable business goals. AMS allows new models to be safely introduced into live campaigns as soon as they are developed, minimizing the risk to overall performance. In live-traffic tests on multiple ad campaigns, the AMS system proved highly effective at improving ad campaign performance.

  Structural Health Monitoring (SHM) has been continuously benefiting from the advancements in the field of data science. Various types of Artificial Intelligence (AI) methods have been utilized for the assessment and evaluation of civil structures. In AI, Machine Learning (ML) and Deep Learning (DL) algorithms require plenty of datasets to train; particularly, the more data DL models are trained with, the better output it yields. Yet, in SHM applications, collecting data from civil structures through sensors is expensive and obtaining useful data (damage associated data) is challenging. In this paper, 1-D Wasserstein loss Deep Convolutional Generative Adversarial Networks using Gradient Penalty (1-D WDCGAN-GP) is utilized to generate damage associated vibration datasets that are similar to the input. For the purpose of vibration-based damage diagnostics, a 1-D Deep Convolutional Neural Network (1-D DCNN) is built, trained, and tested on both real and generated datasets. The classification results from the 1-D DCNN on both datasets resulted to be very similar to each other. The presented work in this paper shows that for the cases of insufficient data in DL or ML-based damage diagnostics, 1-D WDCGAN-GP can successfully generate data for the model to be trained on. Keywords: 1-D Generative Adversarial Networks (GAN), Deep Convolutional Generative Adversarial Networks (DCGAN), Wasserstein Generative Adversarial Networks with Gradient Penalty (WGAN-GP), 1-D Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN), Structural Health Monitoring (SHM), Structural Damage Diagnostics, Structural Damage Detection

  Current deep learning techniques for style transfer would not be optimal for design support since their "one-shot" transfer does not fit exploratory design processes. To overcome this gap, we propose parametric transcription, which transcribes an end-to-end style transfer effect into parameter values of specific transformations available in an existing content editing tool. With this approach, users can imitate the style of a reference sample in the tool that they are familiar with and thus can easily continue further exploration by manipulating the parameters. To enable this, we introduce a framework that utilizes an existing pretrained model for style transfer to calculate a perceptual style distance to the reference sample and uses black-box optimization to find the parameters that minimize this distance. Our experiments with various third-party tools, such as Instagram and Blender, show that our framework can effectively leverage deep learning techniques for computational design support.

  Based on $\alpha$-stable random projections with small $\alpha$, we develop a simple algorithm for compressed sensing (sparse signal recovery) by utilizing only the signs (i.e., 1-bit) of the measurements. Using only 1-bit information of the measurements results in substantial cost reduction in collection, storage, communication, and decoding for compressed sensing. The proposed algorithm is efficient in that the decoding procedure requires only one scan of the coordinates. Our analysis can precisely show that, for a $K$-sparse signal of length $N$, $12.3K\log N/\delta$ measurements (where $\delta$ is the confidence) would be sufficient for recovering the support and the signs of the signal. While the method is very robust against typical measurement noises, we also provide the analysis of the scheme under random flipping of the signs of the measurements.   \noindent Compared to the well-known work on 1-bit marginal regression (which can also be viewed as a one-scan method), the proposed algorithm requires orders of magnitude fewer measurements. Compared to 1-bit Iterative Hard Thresholding (IHT) (which is not a one-scan algorithm), our method is still significantly more accurate. Furthermore, the proposed method is reasonably robust against random sign flipping while IHT is known to be very sensitive to this type of noise.

  In this paper we examine data fusion methods for multi-view data classification. We present a decision concept which explicitly takes into account the input multi-view structure, where for each case there is a different subset of relevant views. This data fusion concept, which we dub Mixture of Views, is implemented by a special purpose neural network architecture. It is demonstrated on the task of classifying breast microcalcifications as benign or malignant based on CC and MLO mammography views. The single view decisions are combined by a data-driven decision, according to the relevance of each view in a given case, into a global decision. The method is evaluated on a large multi-view dataset extracted from the standardized digital database for screening mammography (DDSM). The experimental results show that our method outperforms previously suggested fusion methods.

  We consider three modern roles for logic in artificial intelligence, which are based on the theory of tractable Boolean circuits: (1) logic as a basis for computation, (2) logic for learning from a combination of data and knowledge, and (3) logic for reasoning about the behavior of machine learning systems.

  Policy gradient methods are appealing in deep reinforcement learning but suffer from high variance of gradient estimate. To reduce the variance, the state value function is applied commonly. However, the effect of the state value function becomes limited in stochastic dynamic environments, where the unexpected state dynamics and rewards will increase the variance. In this paper, we propose to replace the state value function with a novel hindsight value function, which leverages the information from the future to reduce the variance of the gradient estimate for stochastic dynamic environments.   Particularly, to obtain an ideally unbiased gradient estimate, we propose an information-theoretic approach, which optimizes the embeddings of the future to be independent of previous actions. In our experiments, we apply the proposed hindsight value function in stochastic dynamic environments, including discrete-action environments and continuous-action environments. Compared with the standard state value function, the proposed hindsight value function consistently reduces the variance, stabilizes the training, and improves the eventual policy.

  Consider the following instance of the Offline Meta Reinforcement Learning (OMRL) problem: given the complete training logs of $N$ conventional RL agents, trained on $N$ different tasks, design a meta-agent that can quickly maximize reward in a new, unseen task from the same task distribution. In particular, while each conventional RL agent explored and exploited its own different task, the meta-agent must identify regularities in the data that lead to effective exploration/exploitation in the unseen task. Here, we take a Bayesian RL (BRL) view, and seek to learn a Bayes-optimal policy from the offline data. Building on the recent VariBAD BRL approach, we develop an off-policy BRL method that learns to plan an exploration strategy based on an adaptive neural belief estimate. However, learning to infer such a belief from offline data brings a new identifiability issue we term MDP ambiguity. We characterize the problem, and suggest resolutions via data collection and modification procedures. Finally, we evaluate our framework on a diverse set of domains, including difficult sparse reward tasks, and demonstrate learning of effective exploration behavior that is qualitatively different from the exploration used by any RL agent in the data.

  Batch normalization (BN) has been very effective for deep learning and is widely used. However, when training with small minibatches, models using BN exhibit a significant degradation in performance. In this paper we study this peculiar behavior of BN to gain a better understanding of the problem, and identify a cause. We propose 'EvalNorm' to address the issue by estimating corrected normalization statistics to use for BN during evaluation. EvalNorm supports online estimation of the corrected statistics while the model is being trained, and does not affect the training scheme of the model. As a result, EvalNorm can also be used with existing pre-trained models allowing them to benefit from our method. EvalNorm yields large gains for models trained with smaller batches. Our experiments show that EvalNorm performs 6.18% (absolute) better than vanilla BN for a batchsize of 2 on ImageNet validation set and from 1.5 to 7.0 points (absolute) gain on the COCO object detection benchmark across a variety of setups.

  Multi-modal based speech separation has exhibited a specific advantage on isolating the target character in multi-talker noisy environments. Unfortunately, most of current separation strategies prefer a straightforward fusion based on feature learning of each single modality, which is far from sufficient consideration of inter-relationships between modalites. Inspired by learning joint feature representations from audio and visual streams with attention mechanism, in this study, a novel cross-modal fusion strategy is proposed to benefit the whole framework with semantic correlations between different modalities. To further improve audio-visual speech separation, the dense optical flow of lip motion is incorporated to strengthen the robustness of visual representation. The evaluation of the proposed work is performed on two public audio-visual speech separation benchmark datasets. The overall improvement of the performance has demonstrated that the additional motion network effectively enhances the visual representation of the combined lip images and audio signal, as well as outperforming the baseline in terms of all metrics with the proposed cross-modal fusion.

  Classification algorithms have been widely adopted to detect anomalies for various systems, e.g., IoT, cloud and face recognition, under the common assumption that the data source is clean, i.e., features and labels are correctly set. However, data collected from the wild can be unreliable due to careless annotations or malicious data transformation for incorrect anomaly detection. In this paper, we extend a two-layer on-line data selection framework: Robust Anomaly Detector (RAD) with a newly designed ensemble prediction where both layers contribute to the final anomaly detection decision. To adapt to the on-line nature of anomaly detection, we consider additional features of conflicting opinions of classifiers, repetitive cleaning, and oracle knowledge. We on-line learn from incoming data streams and continuously cleanse the data, so as to adapt to the increasing learning capacity from the larger accumulated data set. Moreover, we explore the concept of oracle learning that provides additional information of true labels for difficult data points. We specifically focus on three use cases, (i) detecting 10 classes of IoT attacks, (ii) predicting 4 classes of task failures of big data jobs, and (iii) recognising 100 celebrities faces. Our evaluation results show that RAD can robustly improve the accuracy of anomaly detection, to reach up to 98.95% for IoT device attacks (i.e., +7%), up to 85.03% for cloud task failures (i.e., +14%) under 40% label noise, and for its extension, it can reach up to 77.51% for face recognition (i.e., +39%) under 30% label noise. The proposed RAD and its extensions are general and can be applied to different anomaly detection algorithms.

  Communication has been seen as a significant bottleneck in industrial applications over large-scale networks. To alleviate the communication burden, sign-based optimization algorithms have gained popularity recently in both industrial and academic communities, which is shown to be closely related to adaptive gradient methods, such as Adam. Along this line, this paper investigates faster convergence for a variant of sign-based gradient descent, called scaled signGD, in three cases: 1) the objective function is strongly convex; 2) the objective function is nonconvex but satisfies the Polyak-Lojasiewicz (PL) inequality; 3) the gradient is stochastic, called scaled signGD in this case. For the first two cases, it can be shown that the scaled signGD converges at a linear rate. For case 3), the algorithm is shown to converge linearly to a neighborhood of the optimal value when a constant learning rate is employed, and the algorithm converges at a rate of $O(1/k)$ when using a diminishing learning rate, where $k$ is the iteration number. The results are also extended to the distributed setting by majority vote in a parameter-server framework. Finally, numerical experiments on logistic regression are performed to corroborate the theoretical findings.

  Transformers have increasingly outperformed gated RNNs in obtaining new state-of-the-art results on supervised tasks involving text sequences. Inspired by this trend, we study the question of how Transformer-based models can improve the performance of sequential decision-making agents. We present the Working Memory Graph (WMG), an agent that employs multi-head self-attention to reason over a dynamic set of vectors representing observed and recurrent state. We evaluate WMG in three environments featuring factored observation spaces: a Pathfinding environment that requires complex reasoning over past observations, BabyAI gridworld levels that involve variable goals, and Sokoban which emphasizes future planning. We find that the combination of WMG's Transformer-based architecture with factored observation spaces leads to significant gains in learning efficiency compared to baseline architectures across all tasks. WMG demonstrates how Transformer-based models can dramatically boost sample efficiency in RL environments for which observations can be factored.

  We study the prevalent problem when a test distribution differs from the training distribution. We consider a setting where our training set consists of a small number of sample domains, but where we have many samples in each domain. Our goal is to generalize to a new domain. For example, we may want to learn a similarity function using only certain classes of objects, but we desire that this similarity function be applicable to object classes not present in our training sample (e.g. we might seek to learn that "dogs are similar to dogs" even though images of dogs were absent from our training set). Our theoretical analysis shows that we can select many more features than domains while avoiding overfitting by utilizing data-dependent variance properties. We present a greedy feature selection algorithm based on using T-statistics. Our experiments validate this theory showing that our T-statistic based greedy feature selection is more robust at avoiding overfitting than the classical greedy procedure.

  Debiased machine learning (DML) offers an attractive way to estimate treatment effects in observational settings, where identification of causal parameters requires a conditional independence or unconfoundedness assumption, since it allows to control flexibly for a potentially very large number of covariates. This paper gives novel finite-sample guarantees for joint inference on high-dimensional DML, bounding how far the finite-sample distribution of the estimator is from its asymptotic Gaussian approximation. These guarantees are useful to applied researchers, as they are informative about how far off the coverage of joint confidence bands can be from the nominal level. There are many settings where high-dimensional causal parameters may be of interest, such as the ATE of many treatment profiles, or the ATE of a treatment on many outcomes. We also cover infinite-dimensional parameters, such as impacts on the entire marginal distribution of potential outcomes. The finite-sample guarantees in this paper complement the existing results on consistency and asymptotic normality of DML estimators, which are either asymptotic or treat only the one-dimensional case.

  Photoplethysmographic (PPG) signals offer diagnostic potential beyond heart rate analysis or blood oxygen level monitoring. In the recent past, research focused extensively on non-invasive PPG-based approaches to blood pressure (BP) estimation. These approaches can be subdivided into regression and classification methods. The latter assign PPG signals to predefined BP intervals that represent clinically relevant ranges. The former predict systolic (SBP) and diastolic (DBP) BP as continuous variables and are of particular interest to the research community. However, the reported accuracies of BP regression methods vary widely among publications with some authors even questioning the feasibility of PPG-based BP regression altogether. In our work, we compare BP regression and classification approaches. We argue that BP classification might provide diagnostic value that is equivalent to regression in many clinically relevant scenarios while being similar or even superior in terms of performance. We compare several established neural architectures using publicly available PPG data for SBP regression and classification with and without personalization using subject-specific data. We found that classification and regression models perform similar before personalization. However, after personalization, the accuracy of classification based methods outperformed regression approaches. We conclude that BP classification might be preferable over BP regression in certain scenarios where a coarser segmentation of the BP range is sufficient.

  In the usual trace reconstruction problem, the goal is to exactly reconstruct an unknown string of length $n$ after it passes through a deletion channel many times independently, producing a set of traces (i.e., random subsequences of the string). We consider the relaxed problem of approximate reconstruction. Here, the goal is to output a string that is close to the original one in edit distance while using much fewer traces than is needed for exact reconstruction. We present several algorithms that can approximately reconstruct strings that belong to certain classes, where the estimate is within $n/\mathrm{polylog}(n)$ edit distance, and where we only use $\mathrm{polylog}(n)$ traces (or sometimes just a single trace). These classes contain strings that require a linear number of traces for exact reconstruction and which are quite different from a typical random string. From a technical point of view, our algorithms approximately reconstruct consecutive substrings of the unknown string by aligning dense regions of traces and using a run of a suitable length to approximate each region. To complement our algorithms, we present a general black-box lower bound for approximate reconstruction, building on a lower bound for distinguishing between two candidate input strings in the worst case. In particular, this shows that approximating to within $n^{1/3 - \delta}$ edit distance requires $n^{1 + 3\delta/2}/\mathrm{polylog}(n)$ traces for $0< \delta < 1/3$ in the worst case.

  We study the generalization properties of minimum-norm solutions for three over-parametrized machine learning models including the random feature model, the two-layer neural network model and the residual network model. We proved that for all three models, the generalization error for the minimum-norm solution is comparable to the Monte Carlo rate, up to some logarithmic terms, as long as the models are sufficiently over-parametrized.

  The growth of machine learning as a field has been accelerating with increasing interest and publications across fields, including statistics, but predominantly in computer science. How can we parse this vast literature for developments that exemplify the necessary rigor? How many of these manuscripts incorporate foundational theory to allow for statistical inference? Which advances have the greatest potential for impact in practice? One could posit many answers to these queries. Here, we assert that one essential idea is for machine learning to integrate maximum likelihood for estimation of functional parameters, such as prediction functions and conditional densities.

  Accurate environment perception is essential for automated driving. When using monocular cameras, the distance estimation of elements in the environment poses a major challenge. Distances can be more easily estimated when the camera perspective is transformed to a bird's eye view (BEV). For flat surfaces, Inverse Perspective Mapping (IPM) can accurately transform images to a BEV. Three-dimensional objects such as vehicles and vulnerable road users are distorted by this transformation making it difficult to estimate their position relative to the sensor. This paper describes a methodology to obtain a corrected 360{\deg} BEV image given images from multiple vehicle-mounted cameras. The corrected BEV image is segmented into semantic classes and includes a prediction of occluded areas. The neural network approach does not rely on manually labeled data, but is trained on a synthetic dataset in such a way that it generalizes well to real-world data. By using semantically segmented images as input, we reduce the reality gap between simulated and real-world data and are able to show that our method can be successfully applied in the real world. Extensive experiments conducted on the synthetic data demonstrate the superiority of our approach compared to IPM. Source code and datasets are available at https://github.com/ika-rwth-aachen/Cam2BEV

  The most widely used machine learning frameworks require users to carefully tune their memory usage so that the deep neural network (DNN) fits into the DRAM capacity of a GPU. This restriction hampers a researcher's flexibility to study different machine learning algorithms, forcing them to either use a less desirable network architecture or parallelize the processing across multiple GPUs. We propose a runtime memory manager that virtualizes the memory usage of DNNs such that both GPU and CPU memory can simultaneously be utilized for training larger DNNs. Our virtualized DNN (vDNN) reduces the average GPU memory usage of AlexNet by up to 89%, OverFeat by 91%, and GoogLeNet by 95%, a significant reduction in memory requirements of DNNs. Similar experiments on VGG-16, one of the deepest and memory hungry DNNs to date, demonstrate the memory-efficiency of our proposal. vDNN enables VGG-16 with batch size 256 (requiring 28 GB of memory) to be trained on a single NVIDIA Titan X GPU card containing 12 GB of memory, with 18% performance loss compared to a hypothetical, oracular GPU with enough memory to hold the entire DNN.

  This paper introduces an R package ForecastTB that can be used to compare the accuracy of different forecasting methods as related to the characteristics of a time series dataset. The ForecastTB is a plug-and-play structured module, and several forecasting methods can be included with simple instructions. The proposed test-bench is not limited to the default forecasting and error metric functions, and users are able to append, remove, or choose the desired methods as per requirements. Besides, several plotting functions and statistical performance metrics are provided to visualize the comparative performance and accuracy of different forecasting methods. Furthermore, this paper presents real application examples with natural time series datasets (i.e., wind speed and solar radiation) to exhibit the features of the ForecastTB package to evaluate forecasting comparison analysis as affected by the characteristics of a dataset. Modeling results indicated the applicability and robustness of the proposed R package ForecastTB for time series forecasting.

  We study (Euclidean) $k$-median and $k$-means with constraints in the streaming model.   There have been recent efforts to design unified algorithms to solve constrained $k$-means problems without using knowledge of the specific constraint at hand aside from mild assumptions like the polynomial computability of feasibility under the constraint (compute if a clustering satisfies the constraint) or the presence of an efficient assignment oracle (given a set of centers, produce an optimal assignment of points to the centers which satisfies the constraint). These algorithms have a running time exponential in $k$, but can be applied to a wide range of constraints.   We demonstrate that a technique proposed in 2019 for solving a specific constrained streaming $k$-means problem, namely fair $k$-means clustering, actually implies streaming algorithms for all these constraints. These work for low dimensional Euclidean space. [Note that there are more algorithms for streaming fair $k$-means today, in particular they exist for high dimensional spaces now as well.]

  Integrable systems have provided various insights into physical phenomena and mathematics. The way of constructing many-body integrable systems is limited to few ansatzes for the Lax pair, except for highly inventive findings of conserved quantities. Machine learning techniques have recently been applied to broad physics fields and proven powerful for building non-trivial transformations and potential functions. We here propose a machine learning approach to a systematic construction of classical integrable systems. Given the Hamiltonian or samples in latent space, our neural network simultaneously learns the corresponding natural Hamiltonian in real space and the canonical transformation between the latent space and the real space variables. We also propose a loss function for building integrable systems and demonstrate successful unsupervised learning for the Toda lattice. Our approach enables exploring new integrable systems without any prior knowledge about the canonical transformation or any ansatz for the Lax pair.

  Perception of time from sequentially acquired sensory inputs is rooted in everyday behaviors of individual organisms. Yet, most algorithms for time-series modeling fail to learn dynamics of random event timings directly from visual or audio inputs, requiring timing annotations during training that are usually unavailable for real-world applications. For instance, neuroscience perspectives on postdiction imply that there exist variable temporal ranges within which the incoming sensory inputs can affect the earlier perception, but such temporal ranges are mostly unannotated for real applications such as automatic speech recognition (ASR). In this paper, we present a probabilistic ordinary differential equation (ODE), called STochastic boundaRy ODE (STRODE), that learns both the timings and the dynamics of time series data without requiring any timing annotations during training. STRODE allows the usage of differential equations to sample from the posterior point processes, efficiently and analytically. We further provide theoretical guarantees on the learning of STRODE. Our empirical results show that our approach successfully infers event timings of time series data. Our method achieves competitive or superior performances compared to existing state-of-the-art methods for both synthetic and real-world datasets.

  We present a set of model-free, reduced-dimensional reinforcement learning (RL) based optimal control designs for linear time-invariant singularly perturbed (SP) systems. We first present a state-feedback and output-feedback based RL control design for a generic SP system with unknown state and input matrices. We take advantage of the underlying time-scale separation property of the plant to learn a linear quadratic regulator (LQR) for only its slow dynamics, thereby saving a significant amount of learning time compared to the conventional full-dimensional RL controller. We analyze the sub-optimality of the design using SP approximation theorems and provide sufficient conditions for closed-loop stability. Thereafter, we extend both designs to clustered multi-agent consensus networks, where the SP property reflects through clustering. We develop both centralized and cluster-wise block-decentralized RL controllers for such networks, in reduced dimensions. We demonstrate the details of the implementation of these controllers using simulations of relevant numerical examples and compare them with conventional RL designs to show the computational benefits of our approach.

  Hierarchical Reinforcement Learning algorithms have successfully been applied to temporal credit assignment problems with sparse reward signals. However, state-of-the-art algorithms require manual specification of sub-task structures, a sample inefficient exploration phase or lack semantic interpretability. Humans, on the other hand, efficiently detect hierarchical sub-structures induced by their surroundings. It has been argued that this inference process universally applies to language, logical reasoning as well as motor control. Therefore, we propose a cognitive-inspired Reinforcement Learning architecture which uses grammar induction to identify sub-goal policies. By treating an on-policy trajectory as a sentence sampled from the policy-conditioned language of the environment, we identify hierarchical constituents with the help of unsupervised grammatical inference. The resulting set of temporal abstractions is called action grammar (Pastra & Aloimonos, 2012) and unifies symbolic and connectionist approaches to Reinforcement Learning. It can be used to facilitate efficient imitation, transfer and online learning.

  From the sampling of data to the initialisation of parameters, randomness is ubiquitous in modern Machine Learning practice. Understanding the statistical fluctuations engendered by the different sources of randomness in prediction is therefore key to understanding robust generalisation. In this manuscript we develop a quantitative and rigorous theory for the study of fluctuations in an ensemble of generalised linear models trained on different, but correlated, features in high-dimensions. In particular, we provide a complete description of the asymptotic joint distribution of the empirical risk minimiser for generic convex loss and regularisation in the high-dimensional limit. Our result encompasses a rich set of classification and regression tasks, such as the lazy regime of overparametrised neural networks, or equivalently the random features approximation of kernels. While allowing to study directly the mitigating effect of ensembling (or bagging) on the bias-variance decomposition of the test error, our analysis also helps disentangle the contribution of statistical fluctuations, and the singular role played by the interpolation threshold that are at the roots of the "double-descent" phenomenon.

  The objective of goodness-of-fit testing is to assess whether a dataset of observations is likely to have been drawn from a candidate probability distribution. This paper presents a rank-based family of goodness-of-fit tests that is specialized to discrete distributions on high-dimensional domains. The test is readily implemented using a simulation-based, linear-time procedure. The testing procedure can be customized by the practitioner using knowledge of the underlying data domain. Unlike most existing test statistics, the proposed test statistic is distribution-free and its exact (non-asymptotic) sampling distribution is known in closed form. We establish consistency of the test against all alternatives by showing that the test statistic is distributed as a discrete uniform if and only if the samples were drawn from the candidate distribution. We illustrate its efficacy for assessing the sample quality of approximate sampling algorithms over combinatorially large spaces with intractable probabilities, including random partitions in Dirichlet process mixture models and random lattices in Ising models.

  This paper targets the task with discrete and periodic class labels ($e.g.,$ pose/orientation estimation) in the context of deep learning. The commonly used cross-entropy or regression loss is not well matched to this problem as they ignore the periodic nature of the labels and the class similarity, or assume labels are continuous value. We propose to incorporate inter-class correlations in a Wasserstein training framework by pre-defining ($i.e.,$ using arc length of a circle) or adaptively learning the ground metric. We extend the ground metric as a linear, convex or concave increasing function $w.r.t.$ arc length from an optimization perspective. We also propose to construct the conservative target labels which model the inlier and outlier noises using a wrapped unimodal-uniform mixture distribution. Unlike the one-hot setting, the conservative label makes the computation of Wasserstein distance more challenging. We systematically conclude the practical closed-form solution of Wasserstein distance for pose data with either one-hot or conservative target label. We evaluate our method on head, body, vehicle and 3D object pose benchmarks with exhaustive ablation studies. The Wasserstein loss obtaining superior performance over the current methods, especially using convex mapping function for ground metric, conservative label, and closed-form solution.

  In preference-based reinforcement learning (RL), an agent interacts with the environment while receiving preferences instead of absolute feedback. While there is increasing research activity in preference-based RL, the design of formal frameworks that admit tractable theoretical analysis remains an open challenge. Building upon ideas from preference-based bandit learning and posterior sampling in RL, we present DUELING POSTERIOR SAMPLING (DPS), which employs preference-based posterior sampling to learn both the system dynamics and the underlying utility function that governs the preference feedback. As preference feedback is provided on trajectories rather than individual state-action pairs, we develop a Bayesian approach for the credit assignment problem, translating preferences to a posterior distribution over state-action reward models. We prove an asymptotic Bayesian no-regret rate for DPS with a Bayesian linear regression credit assignment model. This is the first regret guarantee for preference-based RL to our knowledge. We also discuss possible avenues for extending the proof methodology to other credit assignment models. Finally, we evaluate the approach empirically, showing competitive performance against existing baselines.

  Deep Reinforcement Learning (RL) involves the use of Deep Neural Networks (DNNs) to make sequential decisions in order to maximize reward. For many tasks the resulting sequence of actions produced by a Deep RL policy can be long and difficult to understand for humans. A crucial component of human explanations is selectivity, whereby only key decisions and causes are recounted. Imbuing Deep RL agents with such an ability would make their resulting policies easier to understand from a human perspective and generate a concise set of instructions to aid the learning of future agents. To this end we use a Deep RL agent with an episodic memory system to identify and recount key decisions during policy execution. We show that these decisions form a short, human readable explanation that can also be used to speed up the learning of naive Deep RL agents in an algorithm-independent manner.

  With the increase in adoption of machine learning tools by organizations risks of unfairness abound, especially when human decision processes in outcomes of socio-economic importance such as hiring, housing, lending, and admissions are automated. We reveal sources of unfair machine learning, review fairness criteria, and provide a framework which, if implemented, would enable an organization to both avoid implementing an unfair machine learning model, but also to avoid the common situation that as an algorithm learns with more data it can become unfair over time. Issues of behavioral ethics in machine learning implementations by organizations have not been thoroughly addressed in the literature, because many of the necessary concepts are dispersed across three literatures: ethics, machine learning, and management. Further, tradeoffs between fairness criteria in machine learning have not been addressed with regards to organizations. We advance the research by introducing an organizing framework for selecting and implementing fair algorithms in organizations.

  Graph embedding (GE) methods embed nodes (and/or edges) in graph into a low-dimensional semantic space, and have shown its effectiveness in modeling multi-relational data. However, existing GE models are not practical in real-world applications since it overlooked the streaming nature of incoming data. To address this issue, we study the problem of continual graph representation learning which aims to continually train a GE model on new data to learn incessantly emerging multi-relational data while avoiding catastrophically forgetting old learned knowledge. Moreover, we propose a disentangle-based continual graph representation learning (DiCGRL) framework inspired by the human's ability to learn procedural knowledge. The experimental results show that DiCGRL could effectively alleviate the catastrophic forgetting problem and outperform state-of-the-art continual learning models.

  Motivated by the problem relatedness between unsupervised domain adaptation (UDA) and semi-supervised learning (SSL), many state-of-the-art UDA methods adopt SSL principles (e.g., the cluster assumption) as their learning ingredients. However, they tend to overlook the very domain-shift nature of UDA. In this work, we take a step further to study the proper extensions of SSL techniques for UDA. Taking the algorithm of label propagation (LP) as an example, we analyze the challenges of adopting LP to UDA and theoretically analyze the conditions of affinity graph/matrix construction in order to achieve better propagation of true labels to unlabeled instances. Our analysis suggests a new algorithm of Label Propagation with Augmented Anchors (A$^2$LP), which could potentially improve LP via generation of unlabeled virtual instances (i.e., the augmented anchors) with high-confidence label predictions. To make the proposed A$^2$LP useful for UDA, we propose empirical schemes to generate such virtual instances. The proposed schemes also tackle the domain-shift challenge of UDA by alternating between pseudo labeling via A$^2$LP and domain-invariant feature learning. Experiments show that such a simple SSL extension improves over representative UDA methods of domain-invariant feature learning, and could empower two state-of-the-art methods on benchmark UDA datasets. Our results show the value of further investigation on SSL techniques for UDA problems.

  Segmentation is a prerequisite yet challenging task for medical image analysis. In this paper, we introduce a novel deeply supervised active learning approach for finger bones segmentation. The proposed architecture is fine-tuned in an iterative and incremental learning manner. In each step, the deep supervision mechanism guides the learning process of hidden layers and selects samples to be labeled. Extensive experiments demonstrated that our method achieves competitive segmentation results using less labeled samples as compared with full annotation.

  In this paper we present a technique to train neural network models on small amounts of data. Current methods for training neural networks on small amounts of rich data typically rely on strategies such as fine-tuning a pre-trained neural network or the use of domain-specific hand-engineered features. Here we take the approach of treating network layers, or entire networks, as modules and combine pre-trained modules with untrained modules, to learn the shift in distributions between data sets. The central impact of using a modular approach comes from adding new representations to a network, as opposed to replacing representations via fine-tuning. Using this technique, we are able surpass results using standard fine-tuning transfer learning approaches, and we are also able to significantly increase performance over such approaches when using smaller amounts of data.

  There have been considerable debates over 2D and 3D representation learning on 3D medical images. 2D approaches could benefit from large-scale 2D pretraining, whereas they are generally weak in capturing large 3D contexts. 3D approaches are natively strong in 3D contexts, however few publicly available 3D medical dataset is large and diverse enough for universal 3D pretraining. Even for hybrid (2D + 3D) approaches, the intrinsic disadvantages within the 2D / 3D parts still exist. In this study, we bridge the gap between 2D and 3D convolutions by reinventing the 2D convolutions. We propose ACS (axial-coronal-sagittal) convolutions to perform natively 3D representation learning, while utilizing the pretrained weights on 2D datasets. In ACS convolutions, 2D convolution kernels are split by channel into three parts, and convoluted separately on the three views (axial, coronal and sagittal) of 3D representations. Theoretically, ANY 2D CNN (ResNet, DenseNet, or DeepLab) is able to be converted into a 3D ACS CNN, with pretrained weight of a same parameter size. Extensive experiments on several medical benchmarks (including classification, segmentation and detection tasks) validate the consistent superiority of the pretrained ACS CNNs, over the 2D / 3D CNN counterparts with / without pretraining. Even without pretraining, the ACS convolution can be used as a plug-and-play replacement of standard 3D convolution, with smaller model size and less computation.

  This paper presents new dynamic topology adaptation strategies for distributed estimation in smart grids systems. We propose a dynamic exhaustive search--based topology adaptation algorithm and a dynamic sparsity--inspired topology adaptation algorithm, which can exploit the topology of smart grids with poor--quality links and obtain performance gains. We incorporate an optimized combining rule, named Hastings rule into our proposed dynamic topology adaptation algorithms. Compared with the existing works in the literature on distributed estimation, the proposed algorithms have a better convergence rate and significantly improve the system performance. The performance of the proposed algorithms is compared with that of existing algorithms in the IEEE 14--bus system.

  Institutional investors have been increasing the allocation of the illiquid alternative assets such as private equity funds in their portfolios, yet there exists a very limited literature on cash flow forecasting of illiquid alternative assets. The net cash flow of private equity funds typically follow a J-curve pattern, however the timing and the size of the contributions and distributions depend on the investment opportunities. In this paper, we develop a benchmark model and present two novel approaches (direct vs. indirect) to predict the cash flows of private equity funds. We introduce a sliding window approach to apply on our cash flow data because different vintage year funds contain different lengths of cash flow information. We then pass the data to an LSTM/ GRU model to predict the future cash flows either directly or indirectly (based on the benchmark model). We further integrate macroeconomic indicators into our data, which allows us to consider the impact of market environment on cash flows and to apply stress testing. Our results indicate that the direct model is easier to implement compared to the benchmark model and the indirect model, but still the predicted cash flows align better with the actual cash flows. We also show that macroeconomic variables improve the performance of the direct model whereas the impact is not obvious on the indirect model.

  Safely exploring an unknown dynamical system is critical to the deployment of reinforcement learning (RL) in physical systems where failures may have catastrophic consequences. In scenarios where one knows little about the dynamics, diverse transition data covering relevant regions of state-action space is needed to apply either model-based or model-free RL. Motivated by the cooling of Google's data centers, we study how one can safely identify the parameters of a system model with a desired accuracy and confidence level. In particular, we focus on learning an unknown linear system with Gaussian noise assuming only that, initially, a nominal safe action is known. Define safety as satisfying specific linear constraints on the state space (e.g., requirements on process variable) that must hold over the span of an entire trajectory, and given a Probably Approximately Correct (PAC) style bound on the estimation error of model parameters, we show how to compute safe regions of action space by gradually growing a ball around the nominal safe action. One can apply any exploration strategy where actions are chosen from such safe regions. Experiments on a stylized model of data center cooling dynamics show how computing proper safe regions can increase the sample efficiency of safe exploration.

  This paper introduces a novel model-based clustering approach for clustering time series which present changes in regime. It consists of a mixture of polynomial regressions governed by hidden Markov chains. The underlying hidden process for each cluster activates successively several polynomial regimes during time. The parameter estimation is performed by the maximum likelihood method through a dedicated Expectation-Maximization (EM) algorithm. The proposed approach is evaluated using simulated time series and real-world time series issued from a railway diagnosis application. Comparisons with existing approaches for time series clustering, including the stand EM for Gaussian mixtures, $K$-means clustering, the standard mixture of regression models and mixture of Hidden Markov Models, demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach.

  Personalization enables businesses to learn customer preferences from past interactions and thus to target individual customers with more relevant content. We consider the problem of predicting the optimal promotional offer for a given customer out of several options as a contextual bandit problem. Identifying information for the customer and/or the campaign can be used to deduce unknown customer/campaign features that improve optimal offer prediction. Using a generated synthetic email promo dataset, we demonstrate similar prediction accuracies for (a) a wide and deep network that takes identifying information (or other categorical features) as input to the wide part and (b) a deep-only neural network that includes embeddings of categorical features in the input. Improvements in accuracy from including categorical features depends on the variability of the unknown numerical features for each category. We also show that selecting options using upper confidence bound or Thompson sampling, approximated via Monte Carlo dropout layers in the wide and deep models, slightly improves model performance.

  Recently, a spate of papers have provided positive theoretical results for training over-parameterized neural networks (where the network size is larger than what is needed to achieve low error). The key insight is that with sufficient over-parameterization, gradient-based methods will implicitly leave some components of the network relatively unchanged, so the optimization dynamics will behave as if those components are essentially fixed at their initial random values. In fact, fixing these explicitly leads to the well-known approach of learning with random features. In other words, these techniques imply that we can successfully learn with neural networks, whenever we can successfully learn with random features. In this paper, we first review these techniques, providing a simple and self-contained analysis for one-hidden-layer networks. We then argue that despite the impressive positive results, random feature approaches are also inherently limited in what they can explain. In particular, we rigorously show that random features cannot be used to learn even a single ReLU neuron with standard Gaussian inputs, unless the network size (or magnitude of the weights) is exponentially large. Since a single neuron is learnable with gradient-based methods, we conclude that we are still far from a satisfying general explanation for the empirical success of neural networks.

  Element-based textures are a kind of texture formed by nameable elements, the texels [1], distributed according to specific statistical distributions; it is of primary importance in many sectors, namely textile, fashion and interior design industry. State-of-theart texture descriptors fail to properly characterize element-based texture, so we present Texel-Att to fill this gap. Texel-Att is the first fine-grained, attribute-based representation and classification framework for element-based textures. It first individuates texels, characterizing them with individual attributes; subsequently, texels are grouped and characterized through layout attributes, which give the Texel-Att representation. Texels are detected by a Mask-RCNN, trained on a brand-new element-based texture dataset, ElBa, containing 30K texture images with 3M fully-annotated texels. Examples of individual and layout attributes are exhibited to give a glimpse on the level of achievable graininess. In the experiments, we present detection results to show that texels can be precisely individuated, even on textures "in the wild"; to this sake, we individuate the element-based classes of the Describable Texture Dataset (DTD), where almost 900K texels have been manually annotated, leading to the Element-based DTD (E-DTD). Subsequently, classification and ranking results demonstrate the expressivity of Texel-Att on ElBa and E-DTD, overcoming the alternative features and relative attributes, doubling the best performance in some cases; finally, we report interactive search results on ElBa and E-DTD: with Texel-Att on the E-DTD dataset we are able to individuate within 10 iterations the desired texture in the 90% of cases, against the 71% obtained with a combination of the finest existing attributes so far. Dataset and code is available at https://github.com/godimarcovr/Texel-Att

  Bayesian sequence prediction is a simple technique for predicting future symbols sampled from an unknown measure on infinite sequences over a countable alphabet. While strong bounds on the expected cumulative error are known, there are only limited results on the distribution of this error. We prove tight high-probability bounds on the cumulative error, which is measured in terms of the Kullback-Leibler (KL) divergence. We also consider the problem of constructing upper confidence bounds on the KL and Hellinger errors similar to those constructed from Hoeffding-like bounds in the i.i.d. case. The new results are applied to show that Bayesian sequence prediction can be used in the Knows What It Knows (KWIK) framework with bounds that match the state-of-the-art.

  A core issue with learning to optimize neural networks has been the lack of generalization to real world problems. To address this, we describe a system designed from a generalization-first perspective, learning to update optimizer hyperparameters instead of model parameters directly using novel features, actions, and a reward function. This system outperforms Adam at all neural network tasks including on modalities not seen during training. We achieve 2x speedups on ImageNet, and a 2.5x speedup on a language modeling task using over 5 orders of magnitude more compute than the training tasks.

  Hydrological storm events are a primary driver for transporting water quality constituents such as turbidity, suspended sediments and nutrients. Analyzing the concentration (C) of these water quality constituents in response to increased streamflow discharge (Q), particularly when monitored at high temporal resolution during a hydrological event, helps to characterize the dynamics and flux of such constituents. A conventional approach to storm event analysis is to reduce the C-Q time series to two-dimensional (2-D) hysteresis loops and analyze these 2-D patterns. While effective and informative to some extent, this hysteresis loop approach has limitations because projecting the C-Q time series onto a 2-D plane obscures detail (e.g., temporal variation) associated with the C-Q relationships. In this paper, we address this issue using a multivariate time series clustering approach. Clustering is applied to sequences of river discharge and suspended sediment data (acquired through turbidity-based monitoring) from six watersheds located in the Lake Champlain Basin in the northeastern United States. While clusters of the hydrological storm events using the multivariate time series approach were found to be correlated to 2-D hysteresis loop classifications and watershed locations, the clusters differed from the 2-D hysteresis classifications. Additionally, using available meteorological data associated with storm events, we examine the characteristics of computational clusters of storm events in the study watersheds and identify the features driving the clustering approach.

  Training machine learning models on classical computers is usually a time and compute intensive process. With Moore's law coming to an end and ever increasing demand for large-scale data analysis using machine learning, we must leverage non-conventional computing paradigms like quantum computing to train machine learning models efficiently. Adiabatic quantum computers like the D-Wave 2000Q can approximately solve NP-hard optimization problems, such as the quadratic unconstrained binary optimization (QUBO), faster than classical computers. Since many machine learning problems are also NP-hard, we believe adiabatic quantum computers might be instrumental in training machine learning models efficiently in the post Moore's law era. In order to solve a problem on adiabatic quantum computers, it must be formulated as a QUBO problem, which is a challenging task in itself. In this paper, we formulate the training problems of three machine learning models---linear regression, support vector machine (SVM) and equal-sized k-means clustering---as QUBO problems so that they can be trained on adiabatic quantum computers efficiently. We also analyze the time and space complexities of our formulations and compare them to the state-of-the-art classical algorithms for training these machine learning models. We show that the time and space complexities of our formulations are better (in the case of SVM and equal-sized k-means clustering) or equivalent (in case of linear regression) to their classical counterparts.

  Statistical testing is widespread and critical for a variety of scientific disciplines. The advent of machine learning and the increase of computing power has increased the interest in the analysis and statistical testing of multidimensional data. We extend the powerful Kolmogorov-Smirnov two sample test to a high dimensional form in a similar manner to Fasano (Fasano, 1987). We call our result the d-dimensional Kolmogorov-Smirnov test (ddKS) and provide three novel contributions therewith: we develop an analytical equation for the significance of a given ddKS score, we provide an algorithm for computation of ddKS on modern computing hardware that is of constant time complexity for small sample sizes and dimensions, and we provide two approximate calculations of ddKS: one that reduces the time complexity to linear at larger sample sizes, and another that reduces the time complexity to linear with increasing dimension. We perform power analysis of ddKS and its approximations on a corpus of datasets and compare to other common high dimensional two sample tests and distances: Hotelling's T^2 test and Kullback-Leibler divergence. Our ddKS test performs well for all datasets, dimensions, and sizes tested, whereas the other tests and distances fail to reject the null hypothesis on at least one dataset. We therefore conclude that ddKS is a powerful multidimensional two sample test for general use, and can be calculated in a fast and efficient manner using our parallel or approximate methods. Open source implementations of all methods described in this work are located at https://github.com/pnnl/ddks.

  Deep Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) have evolved as popular machine learning models for image classification during the past few years, due to their ability to learn the problem-specific features directly from the input images. The success of deep learning models solicits architecture engineering rather than hand-engineering the features. However, designing state-of-the-art CNN for a given task remains a non-trivial and challenging task, especially when training data size is less. To address this phenomena, transfer learning has been used as a popularly adopted technique. While transferring the learned knowledge from one task to another, fine-tuning with the target-dependent Fully Connected (FC) layers generally produces better results over the target task. In this paper, the proposed AutoFCL model attempts to learn the structure of FC layers of a CNN automatically using Bayesian optimization. To evaluate the performance of the proposed AutoFCL, we utilize five pre-trained CNN models such as VGG-16, ResNet, DenseNet, MobileNet, and NASNetMobile. The experiments are conducted on three benchmark datasets, namely CalTech-101, Oxford-102 Flowers, and UC Merced Land Use datasets. Fine-tuning the newly learned (target-dependent) FC layers leads to state-of-the-art performance, according to the experiments carried out in this research. The proposed AutoFCL method outperforms the existing methods over CalTech-101 and Oxford-102 Flowers datasets by achieving the accuracy of 94.38% and 98.89%, respectively. However, our method achieves comparable performance on the UC Merced Land Use dataset with 96.83% accuracy. The source codes of this research are available at https://github.com/shabbeersh/AutoFCL.

  This paper introduces a novel non-parametric deep model for estimating time-to-event (survival analysis) in presence of censored data and competing risks. The model is designed based on the sequence-to-sequence (Seq2Seq) architecture, therefore we name it Survival Seq2Seq. The first recurrent neural network (RNN) layer of the encoder of our model is made up of Gated Recurrent Unit with Decay (GRU-D) cells. These cells have the ability to effectively impute not-missing-at-random values of longitudinal datasets with very high missing rates, such as electronic health records (EHRs). The decoder of Survival Seq2Seq generates a probability distribution function (PDF) for each competing risk without assuming any prior distribution for the risks. Taking advantage of RNN cells, the decoder is able to generate smooth and virtually spike-free PDFs. This is beyond the capability of existing non-parametric deep models for survival analysis. Training results on synthetic and medical datasets prove that Survival Seq2Seq surpasses other existing deep survival models in terms of the accuracy of predictions and the quality of generated PDFs.

Supervised learning algorithms generally assume the availability of enough memory to store their data model during the training and test phases. However, in the Internet of Things, this assumption is unrealistic when data comes in the form of infinite data streams, or when learning algorithms are deployed on devices with reduced amounts of memory. In this paper, we adapt the online Mondrian forest classification algorithm to work with memory constraints on data streams. In particular, we design five out-of-memory strategies to update Mondrian trees with new data points when the memory limit is reached. Moreover, we design trimming mechanisms to make Mondrian trees more robust to concept drifts under memory constraints. We evaluate our algorithms on a variety of real and simulated datasets, and we conclude with recommendations on their use in different situations: the Extend Node strategy appears as the best out-of-memory strategy in all configurations, whereas different trimming mechanisms should be adopted depending on whether a concept drift is expected. All our methods are implemented in the OrpailleCC open-source library and are ready to be used on embedded systems and connected objects.

  As the size and complexity of models and datasets grow, so does the need for communication-efficient variants of stochastic gradient descent that can be deployed to perform parallel model training. One popular communication-compression method for data-parallel SGD is QSGD (Alistarh et al., 2017), which quantizes and encodes gradients to reduce communication costs. The baseline variant of QSGD provides strong theoretical guarantees, however, for practical purposes, the authors proposed a heuristic variant which we call QSGDinf, which demonstrated impressive empirical gains for distributed training of large neural networks. In this paper, we build on this work to propose a new gradient quantization scheme, and show that it has both stronger theoretical guarantees than QSGD, and matches and exceeds the empirical performance of the QSGDinf heuristic and of other compression methods.

  Matrix completion has attracted attention in many fields, including statistics, applied mathematics, and electrical engineering. Most of the works focus on the independent sampling models under which the observed entries are sampled independently. Motivated by applications in the integration of knowledge graphs derived from multi-source biomedical data such as those from Electronic Health Records (EHR) and biomedical text, we propose the {\bf B}lock-wise {\bf O}verlapping {\bf N}oisy {\bf M}atrix {\bf I}ntegration (BONMI) to treat blockwise missingness of symmetric matrices representing relatedness between entity pairs. Our idea is to exploit the orthogonal Procrustes problem to align the eigenspace of the two sub-matrices, then complete the missing blocks by the inner product of the two low-rank components. Besides, we prove the statistical rate for the eigenspace of the underlying matrix, which is comparable to the rate under the independently missing assumption. Simulation studies show that the method performs well under a variety of configurations. In the real data analysis, the method is applied to two tasks: (i) the integrating of several point-wise mutual information matrices built by English EHR and Chinese medical text data, and (ii) the machine translation between English and Chinese medical concepts. Our method shows an advantage over existing methods.

  Learning from limited and imbalanced data is a challenging problem in the Artificial Intelligence community. Real-time scenarios demand decision-making from rare events wherein the data are typically imbalanced. These situations commonly arise in medical applications, cybersecurity, catastrophic predictions etc. This motivates the development of learning algorithms capable of learning from imbalanced data. Human brain effortlessly learns from imbalanced data. Inspired by the chaotic neuronal firing in the human brain, a novel learning algorithm namely Neurochaos Learning (NL) was recently proposed. NL is categorized in three blocks: Feature Transformation, Neurochaos Feature Extraction (CFX), and Classification. In this work, the efficacy of neurochaos feature transformation and extraction for classification in imbalanced learning is studied. We propose a unique combination of neurochaos based feature transformation and extraction with traditional ML algorithms. The explored datasets in this study revolve around medical diagnosis, banknote fraud detection, environmental applications and spoken-digit classification. In this study, experiments are performed in both high and low training sample regime. In the former, five out of nine datasets have shown a performance boost in terms of macro F1-score after using CFX features. The highest performance boost obtained is 25.97% for Statlog (Heart) dataset using CFX+Decision Tree. In the low training sample regime (from just one to nine training samples per class), the highest performance boost of 144.38% is obtained for Haberman's Survival dataset using CFX+Random Forest. NL offers enormous flexibility of combining CFX with any ML classifier to boost its performance, especially for learning tasks with limited and imbalanced data.

  Transductive SVM (TSVM) is a well known semi-supervised large margin learning method for binary text classification. In this paper we extend this method to multi-class and hierarchical classification problems. We point out that the determination of labels of unlabeled examples with fixed classifier weights is a linear programming problem. We devise an efficient technique for solving it. The method is applicable to general loss functions. We demonstrate the value of the new method using large margin loss on a number of multi-class and hierarchical classification datasets. For maxent loss we show empirically that our method is better than expectation regularization/constraint and posterior regularization methods, and competitive with the version of entropy regularization method which uses label constraints.

  The traditional cloud-centric approach for Deep Learning (DL) requires training data to be collected and processed at a central server which is often challenging in privacy-sensitive domains like healthcare. Towards this, a new learning paradigm called Federated Learning (FL) has been proposed that brings the potential of DL to these domains while addressing privacy and data ownership issues. FL enables remote clients to learn a shared ML model while keeping the data local. However, conventional FL systems face several challenges such as scalability, complex infrastructure management, and wasted compute and incurred costs due to idle clients. These challenges of FL systems closely align with the core problems that serverless computing and Function-as-a-Service (FaaS) platforms aim to solve. These include rapid scalability, no infrastructure management, automatic scaling to zero for idle clients, and a pay-per-use billing model. To this end, we present a novel system and framework for serverless FL, called FedLess. Our system supports multiple commercial and self-hosted FaaS providers and can be deployed in the cloud, on-premise in institutional data centers, and on edge devices. To the best of our knowledge, we are the first to enable FL across a large fabric of heterogeneous FaaS providers while providing important features like security and Differential Privacy. We demonstrate with comprehensive experiments that the successful training of DNNs for different tasks across up to 200 client functions and more is easily possible using our system. Furthermore, we demonstrate the practical viability of our methodology by comparing it against a traditional FL system and show that it can be cheaper and more resource-efficient.

  Multiple clustering aims at discovering diverse ways of organizing data into clusters. Despite the progress made, it's still a challenge for users to analyze and understand the distinctive structure of each output clustering. To ease this process, we consider diverse clusterings embedded in different subspaces, and analyze the embedding subspaces to shed light into the structure of each clustering. To this end, we provide a two-stage approach called MISC (Multiple Independent Subspace Clusterings). In the first stage, MISC uses independent subspace analysis to seek multiple and statistical independent (i.e. non-redundant) subspaces, and determines the number of subspaces via the minimum description length principle. In the second stage, to account for the intrinsic geometric structure of samples embedded in each subspace, MISC performs graph regularized semi-nonnegative matrix factorization to explore clusters. It additionally integrates the kernel trick into matrix factorization to handle non-linearly separable clusters. Experimental results on synthetic datasets show that MISC can find different interesting clusterings from the sought independent subspaces, and it also outperforms other related and competitive approaches on real-world datasets.

  This paper investigates the use of distributed processing on the problem of emotion recognition from physiological sensors using a popular machine learning library on distributed mode. Specifically, we run a random forests classifier on the biosignal-data, which have been pre-processed to form exclusive groups in an unsupervised fashion, on a Cloudera cluster using Mahout. The use of distributed processing significantly reduces the time required for the offline training of the classifier, enabling processing of large physiological datasets through many iterations.

Estimation and inference on causal parameters is typically reduced to a generalized method of moments problem, which involves auxiliary functions that correspond to solutions to a regression or classification problem. Recent line of work on debiased machine learning shows how one can use generic machine learning estimators for these auxiliary problems, while maintaining asymptotic normality and root-$n$ consistency of the target parameter of interest, while only requiring mean-squared-error guarantees from the auxiliary estimation algorithms. The literature typically requires that these auxiliary problems are fitted on a separate sample or in a cross-fitting manner. We show that when these auxiliary estimation algorithms satisfy natural leave-one-out stability properties, then sample splitting is not required. This allows for sample re-use, which can be beneficial in moderately sized sample regimes. For instance, we show that the stability properties that we propose are satisfied for ensemble bagged estimators, built via sub-sampling without replacement, a popular technique in machine learning practice.

  Data augmentation is an inexpensive way to increase training data diversity and is commonly achieved via transformations of existing data. For tasks such as classification, there is a good case for learning representations of the data that are invariant to such transformations, yet this is not explicitly enforced by classification losses such as the cross-entropy loss. This paper investigates the use of training objectives that explicitly impose this consistency constraint and how it can impact downstream audio classification tasks. In the context of deep convolutional neural networks in the supervised setting, we show empirically that certain measures of consistency are not implicitly captured by the cross-entropy loss and that incorporating such measures into the loss function can improve the performance of audio classification systems. Put another way, we demonstrate how existing augmentation methods can further improve learning by enforcing consistency.

  Differential equations play a pivotal role in modern world ranging from science, engineering, ecology, economics and finance where these can be used to model many physical systems and processes. In this paper, we study two mathematical models of a drug assimilation in the human system using Physics Informed Neural Networks (PINNs). In the first model, we consider the case of single dose of drug in the human system and in the second case, we consider the course of this drug taken at regular intervals. We have used the compartment diagram to model these cases. The resulting differential equations are solved using PINN, where we employ a feed forward multilayer perceptron as function approximator and the network parameters are tuned for minimum error. Further, the network is trained by finding the gradient of the error function with respect to the network parameters. We have employed DeepXDE, a python library for PINNs, to solve the simultaneous first order differential equations describing the two models of drug assimilation. The results show high degree of accuracy between the exact solution and the predicted solution as much as the resulting error reaches10^(-11) for the first model and 10^(-8) for the second model. This validates the use of PINN in solving any dynamical system.

We propose a new meta learning based framework for low resource speech recognition that improves the previous model agnostic meta learning (MAML) approach. The MAML is a simple yet powerful meta learning approach. However, the MAML presents some core deficiencies such as training instabilities and slower convergence speed. To address these issues, we adopt multi-step loss (MSL). The MSL aims to calculate losses at every step of the inner loop of MAML and then combines them with a weighted importance vector. The importance vector ensures that the loss at the last step has more importance than the previous steps. Our empirical evaluation shows that MSL significantly improves the stability of the training procedure and it thus also improves the accuracy of the overall system. Our proposed system outperforms MAML based low resource ASR system on various languages in terms of character error rates and stable training behavior.

  We introduce a novel sequence-to-sequence (seq2seq) voice conversion (VC) model based on the Transformer architecture with text-to-speech (TTS) pretraining. Seq2seq VC models are attractive owing to their ability to convert prosody. While seq2seq models based on recurrent neural networks (RNNs) and convolutional neural networks (CNNs) have been successfully applied to VC, the use of the Transformer network, which has shown promising results in various speech processing tasks, has not yet been investigated. Nonetheless, their data-hungry property and the mispronunciation of converted speech make seq2seq models far from practical. To this end, we propose a simple yet effective pretraining technique to transfer knowledge from learned TTS models, which benefit from large-scale, easily accessible TTS corpora. VC models initialized with such pretrained model parameters are able to generate effective hidden representations for high-fidelity, highly intelligible converted speech. Experimental results show that such a pretraining scheme can facilitate data-efficient training and outperform an RNN-based seq2seq VC model in terms of intelligibility, naturalness, and similarity.

  Zero-shot learning (ZSL) aims to classify images of an unseen class only based on a few attributes describing that class but no access to any training sample. A popular strategy is to learn a mapping between the semantic space of class attributes and the visual space of images based on the seen classes and their data. Thus, an unseen class image can be ideally mapped to its corresponding class attributes. The key challenge is how to align the representations in the two spaces. For most ZSL settings, the attributes for each seen/unseen class are only represented by a vector while the seen-class data provide much more information. Thus, the imbalanced supervision from the semantic and the visual space can make the learned mapping easily overfitting to the seen classes. To resolve this problem, we propose Isometric Propagation Network (IPN), which learns to strengthen the relation between classes within each space and align the class dependency in the two spaces. Specifically, IPN learns to propagate the class representations on an auto-generated graph within each space. In contrast to only aligning the resulted static representation, we regularize the two dynamic propagation procedures to be isometric in terms of the two graphs' edge weights per step by minimizing a consistency loss between them. IPN achieves state-of-the-art performance on three popular ZSL benchmarks. To evaluate the generalization capability of IPN, we further build two larger benchmarks with more diverse unseen classes and demonstrate the advantages of IPN on them.

  Federated learning improves data privacy and efficiency in machine learning performed over networks of distributed devices, such as mobile phones, IoT and wearable devices, etc. Yet models trained with federated learning can still fail to generalize to new devices due to the problem of domain shift. Domain shift occurs when the labeled data collected by source nodes statistically differs from the target node's unlabeled data. In this work, we present a principled approach to the problem of federated domain adaptation, which aims to align the representations learned among the different nodes with the data distribution of the target node. Our approach extends adversarial adaptation techniques to the constraints of the federated setting. In addition, we devise a dynamic attention mechanism and leverage feature disentanglement to enhance knowledge transfer. Empirically, we perform extensive experiments on several image and text classification tasks and show promising results under unsupervised federated domain adaptation setting.

  The DeepDoseNet 3D dose prediction model based on ResNet and Dilated DenseNet is proposed. The 340 head-and-neck datasets from the 2020 AAPM OpenKBP challenge were utilized, with 200 for training, 40 for validation, and 100 for testing. Structures include 56Gy, 63Gy, 70Gy PTVs, and brainstem, spinal cord, right parotid, left parotid, larynx, esophagus, and mandible OARs. Mean squared error (MSE) loss, mean absolute error (MAE) loss, and MAE plus dose-volume histogram (DVH) based loss functions were investigated. Each model's performance was compared using a 3D dose score, $\bar{S_{D}}$, (mean absolute difference between ground truth and predicted 3D dose distributions) and a DVH score, $\bar{S_{DVH}}$ (mean absolute difference between ground truth and predicted dose-volume metrics).Furthermore, DVH metrics Mean[Gy] and D0.1cc [Gy] for OARs and D99%, D95%, D1% for PTVs were computed. DeepDoseNet with the MAE plus DVH-based loss function had the best dose score performance of the OpenKBP entries. MAE+DVH model had the lowest prediction error (P<0.0001, Wilcoxon test) on validation and test datasets (validation: $\bar{S_{D}}$=2.3Gy, $\bar{S_{DVH}}$=1.9Gy; test: $\bar{S_{D}}$=2.0Gy, $\bar{S_{DVH}}$=1.6Gy) followed by the MAE model (validation: $\bar{S_{D}}$=3.6Gy, $\bar{S_{DVH}}$=2.4Gy; test: $\bar{S_{D}}$=3.5Gy, $\bar{S_{DVH}}$=2.3Gy). The MSE model had the highest prediction error (validation: $\bar{S_{D}}$=3.7Gy, $\bar{S_{DVH}}$=3.2Gy; test: $\bar{S_{D}}$=3.6Gy, $\bar{S_{DVH}}$=3.0Gy). No significant difference was found among models in terms of Mean [Gy], but the MAE+DVH model significantly outperformed the MAE and MSE models in terms of D0.1cc[Gy], particularly for mandible and parotids on both validation (P<0.01) and test (P<0.0001) datasets. MAE+DVH outperformed (P<0.0001) in terms of D99%, D95%, D1% for targets. MAE+DVH reduced $\bar{S_{D}}$ by ~60% and $\bar{S_{DVH}}$ by ~70%.

Recent self-supervised learning (SSL) methods have shown impressive results in learning visual representations from unlabeled images. This paper aims to improve their performance further by utilizing the architectural advantages of the underlying neural network, as the current state-of-the-art visual pretext tasks for SSL do not enjoy the benefit, i.e., they are architecture-agnostic. In particular, we focus on Vision Transformers (ViTs), which have gained much attention recently as a better architectural choice, often outperforming convolutional networks for various visual tasks. The unique characteristic of ViT is that it takes a sequence of disjoint patches from an image and processes patch-level representations internally. Inspired by this, we design a simple yet effective visual pretext task, coined SelfPatch, for learning better patch-level representations. To be specific, we enforce invariance against each patch and its neighbors, i.e., each patch treats similar neighboring patches as positive samples. Consequently, training ViTs with SelfPatch learns more semantically meaningful relations among patches (without using human-annotated labels), which can be beneficial, in particular, to downstream tasks of a dense prediction type. Despite its simplicity, we demonstrate that it can significantly improve the performance of existing SSL methods for various visual tasks, including object detection and semantic segmentation. Specifically, SelfPatch significantly improves the recent self-supervised ViT, DINO, by achieving +1.3 AP on COCO object detection, +1.2 AP on COCO instance segmentation, and +2.9 mIoU on ADE20K semantic segmentation.

  Response generation for task-oriented dialogues involves two basic components: dialogue planning and surface realization. These two components, however, have a discrepancy in their objectives, i.e., task completion and language quality. To deal with such discrepancy, conditioned response generation has been introduced where the generation process is factorized into action decision and language generation via explicit action representations. To obtain action representations, recent studies learn latent actions in an unsupervised manner based on the utterance lexical similarity. Such an action learning approach is prone to diversities of language surfaces, which may impinge task completion and language quality. To address this issue, we propose multi-stage adaptive latent action learning (MALA) that learns semantic latent actions by distinguishing the effects of utterances on dialogue progress. We model the utterance effect using the transition of dialogue states caused by the utterance and develop a semantic similarity measurement that estimates whether utterances have similar effects. For learning semantic actions on domains without dialogue states, MsALA extends the semantic similarity measurement across domains progressively, i.e., from aligning shared actions to learning domain-specific actions. Experiments using multi-domain datasets, SMD and MultiWOZ, show that our proposed model achieves consistent improvements over the baselines models in terms of both task completion and language quality.

  As with most Machine Learning systems, recommender systems are typically evaluated through performance metrics computed over held-out data points. However, real-world behavior is undoubtedly nuanced: ad hoc error analysis and deployment-specific tests must be employed to ensure the desired quality in actual deployments. In this paper, we propose RecList, a behavioral-based testing methodology. RecList organizes recommender systems by use case and introduces a general plug-and-play procedure to scale up behavioral testing. We demonstrate its capabilities by analyzing known algorithms and black-box commercial systems, and we release RecList as an open source, extensible package for the community.

  We consider a problem on the synthesis of reactive controllers that optimize some a priori unknown performance criterion while interacting with an uncontrolled environment such that the system satisfies a given temporal logic specification. We decouple the problem into two subproblems. First, we extract a (maximally) permissive strategy for the system, which encodes multiple (possibly all) ways in which the system can react to the adversarial environment and satisfy the specifications. Then, we quantify the a priori unknown performance criterion as a (still unknown) reward function and compute an optimal strategy for the system within the operating envelope allowed by the permissive strategy by using the so-called maximin-Q learning algorithm. We establish both correctness (with respect to the temporal logic specifications) and optimality (with respect to the a priori unknown performance criterion) of this two-step technique for a fragment of temporal logic specifications. For specifications beyond this fragment, correctness can still be preserved, but the learned strategy may be sub-optimal. We present an algorithm to the overall problem, and demonstrate its use and computational requirements on a set of robot motion planning examples.

  The eigendeomposition of nearest-neighbor (NN) graph Laplacian matrices is the main computational bottleneck in spectral clustering. In this work, we introduce a highly-scalable, spectrum-preserving graph sparsification algorithm that enables to build ultra-sparse NN (u-NN) graphs with guaranteed preservation of the original graph spectrums, such as the first few eigenvectors of the original graph Laplacian. Our approach can immediately lead to scalable spectral clustering of large data networks without sacrificing solution quality. The proposed method starts from constructing low-stretch spanning trees (LSSTs) from the original graphs, which is followed by iteratively recovering small portions of "spectrally critical" off-tree edges to the LSSTs by leveraging a spectral off-tree embedding scheme. To determine the suitable amount of off-tree edges to be recovered to the LSSTs, an eigenvalue stability checking scheme is proposed, which enables to robustly preserve the first few Laplacian eigenvectors within the sparsified graph. Additionally, an incremental graph densification scheme is proposed for identifying extra edges that have been missing in the original NN graphs but can still play important roles in spectral clustering tasks. Our experimental results for a variety of well-known data sets show that the proposed method can dramatically reduce the complexity of NN graphs, leading to significant speedups in spectral clustering.

  Extrapolating beyond-demonstrator (BD) performance through the imitation learning (IL) algorithm aims to learn from and subsequently outperform the demonstrator. To that end, a representative approach is to leverage inverse reinforcement learning (IRL) to infer a reward function from demonstrations before performing RL on the learned reward function. However, most existing reward extrapolation methods require massive demonstrations, making it difficult to be applied in tasks of limited training data. To address this problem, one simple solution is to perform data augmentation to artificially generate more training data, which may incur severe inductive bias and policy performance loss. In this paper, we propose a novel meta learning-based reward extrapolation (MLRE) algorithm, which can effectively approximate the ground-truth rewards using limited demonstrations. More specifically, MLRE first learns an initial reward function from a set of tasks that have abundant training data. Then the learned reward function will be fine-tuned using data of the target task. Extensive simulation results demonstrated that the proposed MLRE can achieve impressive performance improvement as compared to other similar BDIL algorithms.

  Partition of unity networks (POU-Nets) have been shown capable of realizing algebraic convergence rates for regression and solution of PDEs, but require empirical tuning of training parameters. We enrich POU-Nets with a Gaussian noise model to obtain a probabilistic generalization amenable to gradient-based minimization of a maximum likelihood loss. The resulting architecture provides spatial representations of both noiseless and noisy data as Gaussian mixtures with closed form expressions for variance which provides an estimator of local error. The training process yields remarkably sharp partitions of input space based upon correlation of function values. This classification of training points is amenable to a hierarchical refinement strategy that significantly improves the localization of the regression, allowing for higher-order polynomial approximation to be utilized. The framework scales more favorably to large data sets as compared to Gaussian process regression and allows for spatially varying uncertainty, leveraging the expressive power of deep neural networks while bypassing expensive training associated with other probabilistic deep learning methods. Compared to standard deep neural networks, the framework demonstrates hp-convergence without the use of regularizers to tune the localization of partitions. We provide benchmarks quantifying performance in high/low-dimensions, demonstrating that convergence rates depend only on the latent dimension of data within high-dimensional space. Finally, we introduce a new open-source data set of PDE-based simulations of a semiconductor device and perform unsupervised extraction of a physically interpretable reduced-order basis.

  To solve deep neural network (DNN)'s huge training dataset and its high computation issue, so-called teacher-student (T-S) DNN which transfers the knowledge of T-DNN to S-DNN has been proposed. However, the existing T-S-DNN has limited range of use, and the knowledge of T-DNN is insufficiently transferred to S-DNN. To improve the quality of the transferred knowledge from T-DNN, we propose a new knowledge distillation using singular value decomposition (SVD). In addition, we define a knowledge transfer as a self-supervised task and suggest a way to continuously receive information from T-DNN. Simulation results show that a S-DNN with a computational cost of 1/5 of the T-DNN can be up to 1.1\% better than the T-DNN in terms of classification accuracy. Also assuming the same computational cost, our S-DNN outperforms the S-DNN driven by the state-of-the-art distillation with a performance advantage of 1.79\%. code is available on https://github.com/sseung0703/SSKD\_SVD.

  Predicting the evolution of the brain network, also called connectome, by foreseeing changes in the connectivity weights linking pairs of anatomical regions makes it possible to spot connectivity-related neurological disorders in earlier stages and detect the development of potential connectomic anomalies. Remarkably, such a challenging prediction problem remains least explored in the predictive connectomics literature. It is a known fact that machine learning (ML) methods have proven their predictive abilities in a wide variety of computer vision problems. However, ML techniques specifically tailored for the prediction of brain connectivity evolution trajectory from a single timepoint are almost absent. To fill this gap, we organized a Kaggle competition where 20 competing teams designed advanced machine learning pipelines for predicting the brain connectivity evolution from a single timepoint. The competing teams developed their ML pipelines with a combination of data pre-processing, dimensionality reduction, and learning methods. Utilizing an inclusive evaluation approach, we ranked the methods based on two complementary evaluation metrics (mean absolute error (MAE) and Pearson Correlation Coefficient (PCC)) and their performances using different training and testing data perturbation strategies (single random split and cross-validation). The final rank was calculated using the rank product for each competing team across all evaluation measures and validation strategies. In support of open science, the developed 20 ML pipelines along with the connectomic dataset are made available on GitHub. The outcomes of this competition are anticipated to lead to the further development of predictive models that can foresee the evolution of brain connectivity over time, as well as other types of networks (e.g., genetic networks).

  We introduce a self-consistent deep-learning framework which, for a noisy deterministic time series, provides unsupervised filtering, state-space reconstruction, identification of the underlying differential equations and forecasting. Without a priori information on the signal, we embed the time series in a state space, where deterministic structures, i.e. attractors, are revealed. Under the assumption that the evolution of solution trajectories is described by an unknown dynamical system, we filter out stochastic outliers. The embedding function, the solution trajectories and the dynamical systems are constructed using deep neural networks, respectively. By exploiting the differentiability of the neural solution trajectory, the neural dynamical system is defined locally at each time, mitigating the need for propagating gradients through numerical solvers. On a chaotic time series masked by additive Gaussian noise, we demonstrate the filtering ability and the predictive power of the proposed framework.

  We present a novel approximate inference method for diffusion processes, based on the Wasserstein gradient flow formulation of the diffusion. In this formulation, the time-dependent density of the diffusion is derived as the limit of implicit Euler steps that follow the gradients of a particular free energy functional. Existing methods for computing Wasserstein gradient flows rely on discretization of the domain of the diffusion, prohibiting their application to domains in more than several dimensions. We propose instead a discretization-free inference method that computes the Wasserstein gradient flow directly in a space of continuous functions. We characterize approximation properties of the proposed method and evaluate it on a nonlinear filtering task, finding performance comparable to the state-of-the-art for filtering diffusions.

  We provide new gradient-based methods for efficiently solving a broad class of ill-conditioned optimization problems. We consider the problem of minimizing a function $f : \mathbb{R}^d \rightarrow \mathbb{R}$ which is implicitly decomposable as the sum of $m$ unknown non-interacting smooth, strongly convex functions and provide a method which solves this problem with a number of gradient evaluations that scales (up to logarithmic factors) as the product of the square-root of the condition numbers of the components. This complexity bound (which we prove is nearly optimal) can improve almost exponentially on that of accelerated gradient methods, which grow as the square root of the condition number of $f$. Additionally, we provide efficient methods for solving stochastic, quadratic variants of this multiscale optimization problem. Rather than learn the decomposition of $f$ (which would be prohibitively expensive), our methods apply a clean recursive "Big-Step-Little-Step" interleaving of standard methods. The resulting algorithms use $\tilde{\mathcal{O}}(d m)$ space, are numerically stable, and open the door to a more fine-grained understanding of the complexity of convex optimization beyond condition number.

  It is well known that humans can learn and recognize objects effectively from several limited image samples. However, learning from just a few images is still a tremendous challenge for existing main-stream deep neural networks. Inspired by analogical reasoning in the human mind, a feasible strategy is to translate the abundant images of a rich source domain to enrich the relevant yet different target domain with insufficient image data. To achieve this goal, we propose a novel, effective multi-adversarial framework (MA) based on part-global learning, which accomplishes one-shot cross-domain image-to-image translation. In specific, we first devise a part-global adversarial training scheme to provide an efficient way for feature extraction and prevent discriminators being over-fitted. Then, a multi-adversarial mechanism is employed to enhance the image-to-image translation ability to unearth the high-level semantic representation. Moreover, a balanced adversarial loss function is presented, which aims to balance the training data and stabilize the training process. Extensive experiments demonstrate that the proposed approach can obtain impressive results on various datasets between two extremely imbalanced image domains and outperform state-of-the-art methods on one-shot image-to-image translation.

  In this work we show that semi-supervised models for vehicle trajectory prediction significantly improve performance over supervised models on state-of-the-art real-world benchmarks. Moving from supervised to semi-supervised models allows scaling-up by using unlabeled data, increasing the number of images in pre-training from Millions to a Billion. We perform ablation studies comparing transfer learning of semi-supervised and supervised models while keeping all other factors equal. Within semi-supervised models we compare contrastive learning with teacher-student methods as well as networks predicting a small number of trajectories with networks predicting probabilities over a large trajectory set. Our results using both low-level and mid-level representations of the driving environment demonstrate the applicability of semi-supervised methods for real-world vehicle trajectory prediction.

  We study the tail bound of the emperical covariance of multivariate normal distribution. Following the work of (Gittens & Tropp, 2011), we provide a tail bound with a small constant.

  Motion planning under uncertainty is one of the main challenges in developing autonomous driving vehicles. In this work, we focus on the uncertainty in sensing and perception, resulted from a limited field of view, occlusions, and sensing range. This problem is often tackled by considering hypothetical hidden objects in occluded areas or beyond the sensing range to guarantee passive safety. However, this may result in conservative planning and expensive computation, particularly when numerous hypothetical objects need to be considered. We propose a reinforcement learning (RL) based solution to manage uncertainty by optimizing for the worst case outcome. This approach is in contrast to traditional RL, where the agents try to maximize the average expected reward. The proposed approach is built on top of the Distributional RL with its policy optimization maximizing the stochastic outcomes' lower bound. This modification can be applied to a range of RL algorithms. As a proof-of-concept, the approach is applied to two different RL algorithms, Soft Actor-Critic and DQN. The approach is evaluated against two challenging scenarios of pedestrians crossing with occlusion and curved roads with a limited field of view. The algorithm is trained and evaluated using the SUMO traffic simulator. The proposed approach yields much better motion planning behavior compared to conventional RL algorithms and behaves comparably to humans driving style.

  Spectral graph convolutional neural networks (CNNs) require approximation to the convolution to alleviate the computational complexity, resulting in performance loss. This paper proposes the topology adaptive graph convolutional network (TAGCN), a novel graph convolutional network defined in the vertex domain. We provide a systematic way to design a set of fixed-size learnable filters to perform convolutions on graphs. The topologies of these filters are adaptive to the topology of the graph when they scan the graph to perform convolution. The TAGCN not only inherits the properties of convolutions in CNN for grid-structured data, but it is also consistent with convolution as defined in graph signal processing. Since no approximation to the convolution is needed, TAGCN exhibits better performance than existing spectral CNNs on a number of data sets and is also computationally simpler than other recent methods.

  As a deep learning model typically contains millions of trainable weights, there has been a growing demand for a more efficient network structure with reduced storage space and improved run-time efficiency. Pruning is one of the most popular network compression techniques. In this paper, we propose a novel unstructured pruning pipeline, Attention-based Simultaneous sparse structure and Weight Learning (ASWL). Unlike traditional channel-wise or weight-wise attention mechanism, ASWL proposed an efficient algorithm to calculate the pruning ratio through layer-wise attention for each layer, and both weights for the dense network and the sparse network are tracked so that the pruned structure is simultaneously learned from randomly initialized weights. Our experiments on MNIST, Cifar10, and ImageNet show that ASWL achieves superior pruning results in terms of accuracy, pruning ratio and operating efficiency when compared with state-of-the-art network pruning methods.

  The automatic classification is a process of automatically assigning text documents to predefined categories. An accurate automatic patent classifier is crucial to patent inventors and patent examiners in terms of intellectual property protection, patent management, and patent information retrieval. We present BERT-CNN, a hierarchical patent classifier based on pre-trained language model by training the national patent application documents collected from the State Information Center, China. The experimental results show that BERT-CNN achieves 84.3% accuracy, which is far better than the two compared baseline methods, Convolutional Neural Networks and Recurrent Neural Networks. We didn't apply our model to the third and fourth hierarchical level of the International Patent Classification - "subclass" and "group".The visualization of the Attention Mechanism shows that BERT-CNN obtains new state-of-the-art results in representing vocabularies and semantics. This article demonstrates the practicality and effectiveness of BERT-CNN in the field of automatic patent classification.

  In this paper we prove that the sample complexity of properly learning a class of Littlestone dimension $d$ with approximate differential privacy is $\tilde O(d^6)$, ignoring privacy and accuracy parameters. This result answers a question of Bun et al. (FOCS 2020) by improving upon their upper bound of $2^{O(d)}$ on the sample complexity. Prior to our work, finiteness of the sample complexity for privately learning a class of finite Littlestone dimension was only known for improper private learners, and the fact that our learner is proper answers another question of Bun et al., which was also asked by Bousquet et al. (NeurIPS 2020). Using machinery developed by Bousquet et al., we then show that the sample complexity of sanitizing a binary hypothesis class is at most polynomial in its Littlestone dimension and dual Littlestone dimension. This implies that a class is sanitizable if and only if it has finite Littlestone dimension. An important ingredient of our proofs is a new property of binary hypothesis classes that we call irreducibility, which may be of independent interest.

  Federated learning allows many parties to collaboratively build a model without exposing data. Particularly, vertical federated learning (VFL) enables parties to build a robust shared machine learning model based upon distributed features about the same samples. However, VFL requires all parties to share a sufficient amount of overlapping samples. In reality, the set of overlapping samples may be small, leaving the majority of the non-overlapping data unutilized. In this paper, we propose Federated Multi-View Training (FedMVT), a semi-supervised learning approach that improves the performance of VFL with limited overlapping samples. FedMVT estimates representations for missing features and predicts pseudo-labels for unlabeled samples to expand training set, and trains three classifiers jointly based upon different views of the input to improve model's representation learning. FedMVT does not require parties to share their original data and model parameters, thus preserving data privacy. We conduct experiments on the NUS-WIDE and the CIFAR10. The experimental results demonstrate that FedMVT significantly outperforms vanilla VFL that only utilizes overlapping samples, and improves the performance of the local model in the party that owns labels.

Learned graph neural networks (GNNs) have recently been established as fast and accurate alternatives for principled solvers in simulating the dynamics of physical systems. In many application domains across science and engineering, however, we are not only interested in a forward simulation but also in solving inverse problems with constraints defined by a partial differential equation (PDE). Here we explore GNNs to solve such PDE-constrained inverse problems. Given a sparse set of measurements, we are interested in recovering the initial condition or parameters of the PDE. We demonstrate that GNNs combined with autodecoder-style priors are well-suited for these tasks, achieving more accurate estimates of initial conditions or physical parameters than other learned approaches when applied to the wave equation or Navier-Stokes equations. We also demonstrate computational speedups of up to 90x using GNNs compared to principled solvers. Project page: https://cyanzhao42.github.io/LearnInverseProblem

  Combining the mutual information criterion with a forward feature selection strategy offers a good trade-off between optimality of the selected feature subset and computation time. However, it requires to set the parameter(s) of the mutual information estimator and to determine when to halt the forward procedure. These two choices are difficult to make because, as the dimensionality of the subset increases, the estimation of the mutual information becomes less and less reliable. This paper proposes to use resampling methods, a K-fold cross-validation and the permutation test, to address both issues. The resampling methods bring information about the variance of the estimator, information which can then be used to automatically set the parameter and to calculate a threshold to stop the forward procedure. The procedure is illustrated on a synthetic dataset as well as on real-world examples.

  Neural Networks (NNs) can provide major empirical performance improvements for robotic systems, but they also introduce challenges in formally analyzing those systems' safety properties. In particular, this work focuses on estimating the forward reachable set of closed-loop systems with NN controllers. Recent work provides bounds on these reachable sets, yet the computationally efficient approaches provide overly conservative bounds (thus cannot be used to verify useful properties), whereas tighter methods are too intensive for online computation. This work bridges the gap by formulating a convex optimization problem for reachability analysis for closed-loop systems with NN controllers. While the solutions are less tight than prior semidefinite program-based methods, they are substantially faster to compute, and some of the available computation time can be used to refine the bounds through input set partitioning, which more than overcomes the tightness gap. The proposed framework further considers systems with measurement and process noise, thus being applicable to realistic systems with uncertainty. Finally, numerical comparisons show $10\times$ reduction in conservatism in $\frac{1}{2}$ of the computation time compared to the state-of-the-art, and the ability to handle various sources of uncertainty is highlighted on a quadrotor model.

We study differentially private (DP) algorithms for smooth stochastic minimax optimization, with stochastic minimization as a byproduct. The holy grail of these settings is to guarantee the optimal trade-off between the privacy and the excess population loss, using an algorithm with a linear time-complexity in the number of training samples. We provide a general framework for solving differentially private stochastic minimax optimization (DP-SMO) problems, which enables the practitioners to bring their own base optimization algorithm and use it as a black-box to obtain the near-optimal privacy-loss trade-off. Our framework is inspired from the recently proposed Phased-ERM method [20] for nonsmooth differentially private stochastic convex optimization (DP-SCO), which exploits the stability of the empirical risk minimization (ERM) for the privacy guarantee. The flexibility of our approach enables us to sidestep the requirement that the base algorithm needs to have bounded sensitivity, and allows the use of sophisticated variance-reduced accelerated methods to achieve near-linear time-complexity. To the best of our knowledge, these are the first linear-time optimal algorithms, up to logarithmic factors, for smooth DP-SMO when the objective is (strongly-)convex-(strongly-)concave. Additionally, based on our flexible framework, we derive a new family of near-linear time algorithms for smooth DP-SCO with optimal privacy-loss trade-offs for a wider range of smoothness parameters compared to previous algorithms.

  Autonomous harvesting may provide a viable solution to mounting labor pressures in the United States's strawberry industry. However, due to bottlenecks in machine perception and economic viability, a profitable and commercially adopted strawberry harvesting system remains elusive. In this research, we explore the feasibility of using deep reinforcement learning to overcome these bottlenecks and develop a practical algorithm to address the sub-objective of viewpoint optimization, or the development of a control policy to direct a camera to favorable vantage points for autonomous harvesting. We evaluate the algorithm's performance in a custom, open-source simulated environment and observe encouraging results. Our trained agent yields 8.7 times higher returns than random actions and 8.8 percent faster exploration than our best baseline policy, which uses visual servoing. Visual investigation shows the agent is able to fixate on favorable viewpoints, despite having no explicit means to propagate information through time. Overall, we conclude that deep reinforcement learning is a promising area of research to advance the state of the art in autonomous strawberry harvesting.

  Real-time control of pumps can be an infeasible task in water distribution systems (WDSs) because the calculation to find the optimal pump speeds is resource-intensive. The computational need cannot be lowered even with the capabilities of smart water networks when conventional optimization techniques are used. Deep reinforcement learning (DRL) is presented here as a controller of pumps in two WDSs. An agent based on a dueling deep q-network is trained to maintain the pump speeds based on instantaneous nodal pressure data. General optimization techniques (e.g., Nelder-Mead method, differential evolution) serve as baselines. The total efficiency achieved by the DRL agent compared to the best performing baseline is above 0.98, whereas the speedup is around 2x compared to that. The main contribution of the presented approach is that the agent can run the pumps in real-time because it depends only on measurement data. If the WDS is replaced with a hydraulic simulation, the agent still outperforms conventional techniques in search speed.

  The proliferation of optical, electron, and scanning probe microscopies gives rise to large volumes of imaging data of objects as diversified as cells, bacteria, pollen, to nanoparticles and atoms and molecules. In most cases, the experimental data streams contain images having arbitrary rotations and translations within the image. At the same time, for many cases, small amounts of labeled data are available in the form of prior published results, image collections, and catalogs, or even theoretical models. Here we develop an approach that allows generalizing from a small subset of labeled data with a weak orientational disorder to a large unlabeled dataset with a much stronger orientational (and positional) disorder, i.e., it performs a classification of image data given a small number of examples even in the presence of a distribution shift between the labeled and unlabeled parts. This approach is based on the semi-supervised rotationally invariant variational autoencoder (ss-rVAE) model consisting of the encoder-decoder "block" that learns a rotationally (and translationally) invariant continuous latent representation of data and a classifier that encodes data into a finite number of discrete classes. The classifier part of the trained ss-rVAE inherits the rotational (and translational) invariances and can be deployed independently of the other parts of the model. The performance of the ss-rVAE is illustrated using the synthetic data sets with known factors of variation. We further demonstrate its application for experimental data sets of nanoparticles, creating nanoparticle libraries and disentangling the representations defining the physical factors of variation in the data. The code reproducing the results is available at https://github.com/ziatdinovmax/Semi-Supervised-VAE-nanoparticles.

  We consider the problem of inferring a latent function in a probabilistic model of data. When dependencies of the latent function are specified by a Gaussian process and the data likelihood is complex, efficient computation often involve Markov chain Monte Carlo sampling with limited applicability to large data sets. We extend some of these techniques to scale efficiently when the problem exhibits a sequential structure. We propose an approximation that enables sequential sampling of both latent variables and associated parameters. We demonstrate strong performance in growing-data settings that would otherwise be unfeasible with naive, non-sequential sampling.

  The internet of things (IoT) is transforming major industries including but not limited to healthcare, agriculture, finance, energy, and transportation. IoT platforms are continually improving with innovations such as the amalgamation of software-defined networks (SDN) and network function virtualization (NFV) in the edge-cloud interplay. Deep learning (DL) is becoming popular due to its remarkable accuracy when trained with a massive amount of data, such as generated by IoT. However, DL algorithms tend to leak privacy when trained on highly sensitive crowd-sourced data such as medical data. Existing privacy-preserving DL algorithms rely on the traditional server-centric approaches requiring high processing powers. We propose a new local differentially private (LDP) algorithm named LATENT that redesigns the training process. LATENT enables a data owner to add a randomization layer before data leave the data owners' devices and reach a potentially untrusted machine learning service. This feature is achieved by splitting the architecture of a convolutional neural network (CNN) into three layers: (1) convolutional module, (2) randomization module, and (3) fully connected module. Hence, the randomization module can operate as an NFV privacy preservation service in an SDN-controlled NFV, making LATENT more practical for IoT-driven cloud-based environments compared to existing approaches. The randomization module employs a newly proposed LDP protocol named utility enhancing randomization, which allows LATENT to maintain high utility compared to existing LDP protocols. Our experimental evaluation of LATENT on convolutional deep neural networks demonstrates excellent accuracy (e.g. 91%- 96%) with high model quality even under low privacy budgets (e.g. $\varepsilon=0.5$).

  This paper introduces a conditional generative adversarial network to redesign a street-level image of urban scenes by generating 1) an urban intervention policy, 2) an attention map that localises where intervention is needed, 3) a high-resolution street-level image (1024 X 1024 or 1536 X1536) after implementing the intervention. We also introduce a new dataset that comprises aligned street-level images of before and after urban interventions from real-life scenarios that make this research possible. The introduced method has been trained on different ranges of urban interventions applied to realistic images. The trained model shows strong performance in re-modelling cities, outperforming existing methods that apply image-to-image translation in other domains that is computed in a single GPU. This research opens the door for machine intelligence to play a role in re-thinking and re-designing the different attributes of cities based on adversarial learning, going beyond the mainstream of facial landmarks manipulation or image synthesis from semantic segmentation.

  Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) have emerged as the state-of-the-art (SOTA) method for graph-based learning tasks. However, it still remains prohibitively challenging to inference GNNs over large graph datasets, limiting their application to large-scale real-world tasks. While end-to-end jointly optimizing GNNs and their accelerators is promising in boosting GNNs' inference efficiency and expediting the design process, it is still underexplored due to the vast and distinct design spaces of GNNs and their accelerators. In this work, we propose G-CoS, a GNN and accelerator co-search framework that can automatically search for matched GNN structures and accelerators to maximize both task accuracy and acceleration efficiency. Specifically, GCoS integrates two major enabling components: (1) a generic GNN accelerator search space which is applicable to various GNN structures and (2) a one-shot GNN and accelerator co-search algorithm that enables simultaneous and efficient search for optimal GNN structures and their matched accelerators. To the best of our knowledge, G-CoS is the first co-search framework for GNNs and their accelerators. Extensive experiments and ablation studies show that the GNNs and accelerators generated by G-CoS consistently outperform SOTA GNNs and GNN accelerators in terms of both task accuracy and hardware efficiency, while only requiring a few hours for the end-to-end generation of the best matched GNNs and their accelerators.

  In medical real-world study (RWS), how to fully utilize the fragmentary and scarce information in model training to generate the solid diagnosis results is a challenging task. In this work, we introduce a novel multi-instance neural network, AMI-Net+, to train and predict from the incomplete and extremely imbalanced data. It is more effective than the state-of-art method, AMI-Net. First, we also implement embedding, multi-head attention and gated attention-based multi-instance pooling to capture the relations of symptoms themselves and with the given disease. Besides, we propose var-ious improvements to AMI-Net, that the cross-entropy loss is replaced by focal loss and we propose a novel self-adaptive multi-instance pooling method on instance-level to obtain the bag representation. We validate the performance of AMI-Net+ on two real-world datasets, from two different medical domains. Results show that our approach outperforms other base-line models by a considerable margin.

  In most existing learning systems, images are typically viewed as 2D pixel arrays. However, in another paradigm gaining popularity, a 2D image is represented as an implicit neural representation (INR) - an MLP that predicts an RGB pixel value given its (x,y) coordinate. In this paper, we propose two novel architectural techniques for building INR-based image decoders: factorized multiplicative modulation and multi-scale INRs, and use them to build a state-of-the-art continuous image GAN. Previous attempts to adapt INRs for image generation were limited to MNIST-like datasets and do not scale to complex real-world data. Our proposed INR-GAN architecture improves the performance of continuous image generators by several times, greatly reducing the gap between continuous image GANs and pixel-based ones. Apart from that, we explore several exciting properties of the INR-based decoders, like out-of-the-box superresolution, meaningful image-space interpolation, accelerated inference of low-resolution images, an ability to extrapolate outside of image boundaries, and strong geometric prior. The project page is located at https://universome.github.io/inr-gan.

  The Pommerman Team Environment is a recently proposed benchmark which involves a multi-agent domain with challenges such as partial observability, decentralized execution (without communication), and very sparse and delayed rewards. The inaugural Pommerman Team Competition held at NeurIPS 2018 hosted 25 participants who submitted a team of 2 agents. Our submission nn_team_skynet955_skynet955 won 2nd place of the "learning agents'' category. Our team is composed of 2 neural networks trained with state of the art deep reinforcement learning algorithms and makes use of concepts like reward shaping, curriculum learning, and an automatic reasoning module for action pruning. Here, we describe these elements and additionally we present a collection of open-sourced agents that can be used for training and testing in the Pommerman environment. Code available at: https://github.com/BorealisAI/pommerman-baseline

  Time series forecasting has gained lots of attention recently; this is because many real-world phenomena can be modeled as time series. The massive volume of data and recent advancements in the processing power of the computers enable researchers to develop more sophisticated machine learning algorithms such as neural networks to forecast the time series data. In this paper, we propose various neural network architectures to forecast the time series data using the dynamic measurements; moreover, we introduce various architectures on how to combine static and dynamic measurements for forecasting. We also investigate the importance of performing techniques such as anomaly detection and clustering on forecasting accuracy. Our results indicate that clustering can improve the overall prediction time as well as improve the forecasting performance of the neural network. Furthermore, we show that feature-based clustering can outperform the distance-based clustering in terms of speed and efficiency. Finally, our results indicate that adding more predictors to forecast the target variable will not necessarily improve the forecasting accuracy.

  We introduce BIOMRC, a large-scale cloze-style biomedical MRC dataset. Care was taken to reduce noise, compared to the previous BIOREAD dataset of Pappas et al. (2018). Experiments show that simple heuristics do not perform well on the new dataset, and that two neural MRC models that had been tested on BIOREAD perform much better on BIOMRC, indicating that the new dataset is indeed less noisy or at least that its task is more feasible. Non-expert human performance is also higher on the new dataset compared to BIOREAD, and biomedical experts perform even better. We also introduce a new BERT-based MRC model, the best version of which substantially outperforms all other methods tested, reaching or surpassing the accuracy of biomedical experts in some experiments. We make the new dataset available in three different sizes, also releasing our code, and providing a leaderboard.

  We consider a class of restless multi-armed bandit (RMAB) problems with unknown arm dynamics. At each time, a player chooses an arm out of N arms to play, referred to as an active arm, and receives a random reward from a finite set of reward states. The reward state of the active arm transits according to an unknown Markovian dynamics. The reward state of passive arms (which are not chosen to play at time t) evolves according to an arbitrary unknown random process. The objective is an arm-selection policy that minimizes the regret, defined as the reward loss with respect to a player that always plays the most rewarding arm. This class of RMAB problems has been studied recently in the context of communication networks and financial investment applications. We develop a strategy that selects arms to be played in a consecutive manner, dubbed Adaptive Sequencing Rules (ASR) algorithm. The sequencing rules for selecting arms under the ASR algorithm are adaptively updated and controlled by the current sample reward means. By designing judiciously the adaptive sequencing rules, we show that the ASR algorithm achieves a logarithmic regret order with time, and a finite-sample bound on the regret is established. Although existing methods have shown a logarithmic regret order with time in this RMAB setting, the theoretical analysis shows a significant improvement in the regret scaling with respect to the system parameters under ASR. Extensive simulation results support the theoretical study and demonstrate strong performance of the algorithm as compared to existing methods.

  Running high-resolution physical models is computationally expensive and essential for many disciplines. Agriculture, transportation, and energy are sectors that depend on high-resolution weather models, which typically consume many hours of large High Performance Computing (HPC) systems to deliver timely results. Many users cannot afford to run the desired resolution and are forced to use low resolution output. One simple solution is to interpolate results for visualization. It is also possible to combine an ensemble of low resolution models to obtain a better prediction. However, these approaches fail to capture the redundant information and patterns in the low-resolution input that could help improve the quality of prediction. In this paper, we propose and evaluate a strategy based on a deep neural network to learn a high-resolution representation from low-resolution predictions using weather forecast as a practical use case. We take a supervised learning approach, since obtaining labeled data can be done automatically. Our results show significant improvement when compared with standard practices and the strategy is still lightweight enough to run on modest computer systems.

  We propose a method for jointly estimating the 3D motion, 3D shape, and appearance of highly motion-blurred objects from a video. To this end, we model the blurred appearance of a fast moving object in a generative fashion by parametrizing its 3D position, rotation, velocity, acceleration, bounces, shape, and texture over the duration of a predefined time window spanning multiple frames. Using differentiable rendering, we are able to estimate all parameters by minimizing the pixel-wise reprojection error to the input video via backpropagating through a rendering pipeline that accounts for motion blur by averaging the graphics output over short time intervals. For that purpose, we also estimate the camera exposure gap time within the same optimization. To account for abrupt motion changes like bounces, we model the motion trajectory as a piece-wise polynomial, and we are able to estimate the specific time of the bounce at sub-frame accuracy. Experiments on established benchmark datasets demonstrate that our method outperforms previous methods for fast moving object deblurring and 3D reconstruction.

  Sparse subspace clustering methods, such as Sparse Subspace Clustering (SSC) \cite{ElhamifarV13} and $\ell^{1}$-graph \cite{YanW09,ChengYYFH10}, are effective in partitioning the data that lie in a union of subspaces. Most of those methods use $\ell^{1}$-norm or $\ell^{2}$-norm with thresholding to impose the sparsity of the constructed sparse similarity graph, and certain assumptions, e.g. independence or disjointness, on the subspaces are required to obtain the subspace-sparse representation, which is the key to their success. Such assumptions are not guaranteed to hold in practice and they limit the application of sparse subspace clustering on subspaces with general location. In this paper, we propose a new sparse subspace clustering method named $\ell^{0}$-graph. In contrast to the required assumptions on subspaces for most existing sparse subspace clustering methods, it is proved that subspace-sparse representation can be obtained by $\ell^{0}$-graph for arbitrary distinct underlying subspaces almost surely under the mild i.i.d. assumption on the data generation. We develop a proximal method to obtain the sub-optimal solution to the optimization problem of $\ell^{0}$-graph with proved guarantee of convergence. Moreover, we propose a regularized $\ell^{0}$-graph that encourages nearby data to have similar neighbors so that the similarity graph is more aligned within each cluster and the graph connectivity issue is alleviated. Extensive experimental results on various data sets demonstrate the superiority of $\ell^{0}$-graph compared to other competing clustering methods, as well as the effectiveness of regularized $\ell^{0}$-graph.

  A common question being raised in automatic speech recognition (ASR) evaluations is how reliable is an observed word error rate (WER) improvement comparing two ASR systems, where statistical hypothesis testing and confidence interval (CI) can be utilized to tell whether this improvement is real or only due to random chance. The bootstrap resampling method has been popular for such significance analysis which is intuitive and easy to use. However, this method fails in dealing with dependent data, which is prevalent in speech world - for example, ASR performance on utterances from the same speaker could be correlated. In this paper we present blockwise bootstrap approach - by dividing evaluation utterances into nonoverlapping blocks, this method resamples these blocks instead of original data. We show that the resulting variance estimator of absolute WER difference between two ASR systems is consistent under mild conditions. We also demonstrate the validity of blockwise bootstrap method on both synthetic and real-world speech data.

  Mixture of Experts (MoE) is a popular framework in the fields of statistics and machine learning for modeling heterogeneity in data for regression, classification and clustering. MoE for continuous data are usually based on the normal distribution. However, it is known that for data with asymmetric behavior, heavy tails and atypical observations, the use of the normal distribution is unsuitable. We introduce a new robust non-normal mixture of experts modeling using the skew $t$ distribution. The proposed skew $t$ mixture of experts, named STMoE, handles these issues of the normal mixtures experts regarding possibly skewed, heavy-tailed and noisy data. We develop a dedicated expectation conditional maximization (ECM) algorithm to estimate the model parameters by monotonically maximizing the observed data log-likelihood. We describe how the presented model can be used in prediction and in model-based clustering of regression data. Numerical experiments carried out on simulated data show the effectiveness and the robustness of the proposed model in fitting non-linear regression functions as well as in model-based clustering. Then, the proposed model is applied to the real-world data of tone perception for musical data analysis, and the one of temperature anomalies for the analysis of climate change data. The obtained results confirm the usefulness of the model for practical data analysis applications.

  Graph machine learning has been extensively studied in both academic and industry. However, as the literature on graph learning booms with a vast number of emerging methods and techniques, it becomes increasingly difficult to manually design the optimal machine learning algorithm for different graph-related tasks. To tackle the challenge, automated graph machine learning, which aims at discovering the best hyper-parameter and neural architecture configuration for different graph tasks/data without manual design, is gaining an increasing number of attentions from the research community. In this paper, we extensively discuss automated graph machine approaches, covering hyper-parameter optimization (HPO) and neural architecture search (NAS) for graph machine learning. We briefly overview existing libraries designed for either graph machine learning or automated machine learning respectively, and further in depth introduce AutoGL, our dedicated and the world's first open-source library for automated graph machine learning. Last but not least, we share our insights on future research directions for automated graph machine learning. This paper is the first systematic and comprehensive discussion of approaches, libraries as well as directions for automated graph machine learning.

  Advances in computer vision are pushing the limits of im-age manipulation, with generative models sampling detailed images on various tasks. However, a specialized model is often developed and trained for each specific task, even though many image edition tasks share similarities. In denoising, inpainting, or image compositing, one always aims at generating a realistic image from a low-quality one. In this paper, we aim at making a step towards a unified approach for image editing. To do so, we propose EdiBERT, a bi-directional transformer trained in the discrete latent space built by a vector-quantized auto-encoder. We argue that such a bidirectional model is suited for image manipulation since any patch can be re-sampled conditionally to the whole image. Using this unique and straightforward training objective, we show that the resulting model matches state-of-the-art performances on a wide variety of tasks: image denoising, image completion, and image composition.

  The challenging field of scene text detection requires complex data annotation, which is time-consuming and expensive. Techniques, such as weak supervision, can reduce the amount of data needed. In this paper we propose a weak supervision method for scene text detection, which makes use of reinforcement learning (RL). The reward received by the RL agent is estimated by a neural network, instead of being inferred from ground-truth labels. First, we enhance an existing supervised RL approach to text detection with several training optimizations, allowing us to close the performance gap to regression-based algorithms. We then use our proposed system in a weakly- and semi-supervised training on real-world data. Our results show that training in a weakly supervised setting is feasible. However, we find that using our model in a semi-supervised setting , e.g. when combining labeled synthetic data with unannotated real-world data, produces the best results.

  Distance metric learning (DML) plays a crucial role in diverse machine learning algorithms and applications. When the labeled information in target domain is limited, transfer metric learning (TML) helps to learn the metric by leveraging the sufficient information from other related domains. Multi-task metric learning (MTML), which can be regarded as a special case of TML, performs transfer across all related domains. Current TML tools usually assume that the same feature representation is exploited for different domains. However, in real-world applications, data may be drawn from heterogeneous domains. Heterogeneous transfer learning approaches can be adopted to remedy this drawback by deriving a metric from the learned transformation across different domains. But they are often limited in that only two domains can be handled. To appropriately handle multiple domains, we develop a novel heterogeneous multi-task metric learning (HMTML) framework. In HMTML, the metrics of all different domains are learned together. The transformations derived from the metrics are utilized to induce a common subspace, and the high-order covariance among the predictive structures of these domains is maximized in this subspace. There do exist a few heterogeneous transfer learning approaches that deal with multiple domains, but the high-order statistics (correlation information), which can only be exploited by simultaneously examining all domains, is ignored in these approaches. Compared with them, the proposed HMTML can effectively explore such high-order information, thus obtaining more reliable feature transformations and metrics. Effectiveness of our method is validated by the extensive and intensive experiments on text categorization, scene classification, and social image annotation.

  In this paper, we study a simple algorithm to construct asymptotically valid confidence regions for model parameters using the batch means method. The main idea is to cancel out the covariance matrix which is hard/costly to estimate. In the process of developing the algorithm, we establish process-level functional central limit theorem for Polyak-Ruppert averaging based stochastic gradient descent estimators. We also extend the batch means method to accommodate more general batch size specifications.

  To date, Bongard Problems (BP) remain one of the few fortresses of AI history yet to be raided by the powerful models of the current era. We present a systematic analysis using modern techniques from the intersection of causality and AI/ML in a humble effort of reviving research around BPs. Specifically, we first compile the BPs into a Markov decision process, then secondly pose causal assumptions on the data generating process arguing for their applicability to BPs, and finally apply reinforcement learning techniques for solving the BPs subject to the causal assumptions.

  Relation Extraction in the biomedical domain is challenging due to the lack of labeled data and high annotation costs, needing domain experts. Distant supervision is commonly used as a way to tackle the scarcity of annotated data by automatically pairing knowledge graph relationships with raw texts. Distantly Supervised Biomedical Relation Extraction (Bio-DSRE) models can seemingly produce very accurate results in several benchmarks. However, given the challenging nature of the task, we set out to investigate the validity of such impressive results. We probed the datasets used by Amin et al. (2020) and Hogan et al. (2021) and found a significant overlap between training and evaluation relationships that, once resolved, reduced the accuracy of the models by up to 71%. Furthermore, we noticed several inconsistencies with the data construction process, such as creating negative samples and improper handling of redundant relationships. We mitigate these issues and present MedDistant19, a new benchmark dataset obtained by aligning the MEDLINE abstracts with the widely used SNOMED Clinical Terms (SNOMED CT) knowledge base. We experimented with several state-of-the-art models achieving an AUC of 55.4% and 49.8% at sentence- and bag-level, showing that there is still plenty of room for improvement.

  As machine learning spreads into more and more application areas, micro controllers and low power CPUs are increasingly being used to perform inference with machine learning models. The capability to deploy onto these limited hardware targets is enabling machine learning models to be used across a diverse range of new domains. Optimising the inference process on these targets poses different challenges from either desktop CPU or GPU implementations, where the small amounts of RAM available on these targets sets limits on size of models which can be executed. Analysis of the memory use patterns of eleven machine learning models was performed. Memory load and store patterns were observed using a modified version of the Valgrind debugging tool, identifying memory areas holding values necessary for the calculation as inference progressed. These analyses identified opportunities optimise the memory use of these models by overlapping the input and output buffers of individual tensor operations. Three methods are presented which can calculate the safe overlap of input and output buffers for tensor operations. Ranging from a computationally expensive approach with the ability to operate on compiled layer operations, to a versatile analytical solution which requires access to the original source code of the layer. The diagonal memory optimisation technique is described and shown to achieve memory savings of up to 34.5% when applied to eleven common models. Micro-controller targets are identified where it is only possible to deploy some models if diagonal memory optimisation is used.

  In this paper, we propose a two-steps approach to partition instances of the Conjunctive Normal Form (CNF) Syntactic Formula Isomorphism problem (CSFI) into groups of different complexity. First, we build a model, based on the Transformer architecture, that attempts to solve instances of the CSFI problem. Then, we leverage the errors of such model and train a second Transformer-based model to partition the problem instances into groups of different complexity, thus detecting the ones that can be solved without using too expensive resources. We evaluate the proposed approach on a pseudo-randomly generated dataset and obtain promising results. Finally, we discuss the possibility of extending this approach to other problems based on the same type of textual representation.

  We present a method for audio denoising that combines processing done in both the time domain and the time-frequency domain. Given a noisy audio clip, the method trains a deep neural network to fit this signal. Since the fitting is only partly successful and is able to better capture the underlying clean signal than the noise, the output of the network helps to disentangle the clean audio from the rest of the signal. This is done by accumulating a fitting score per time-frequency bin and applying the time-frequency domain filtering based on the obtained scores. The method is completely unsupervised and only trains on the specific audio clip that is being denoised. Our experiments demonstrate favorable performance in comparison to the literature methods. Our code and samples are available at github.com/mosheman5/DNP and as supplementary. Index Terms: Audio denoising; Unsupervised learning

  In this paper, we focus on subspace-based learning problems, where data elements are linear subspaces instead of vectors. To handle this kind of data, Grassmann kernels were proposed to measure the space structure and used with classifiers, e.g., Support Vector Machines (SVMs). However, the existing discriminative algorithms mostly ignore the instability of subspaces, which would cause the classifiers misled by disturbed instances. Thus we propose considering all potential disturbance of subspaces in learning processes to obtain more robust classifiers. Firstly, we derive the dual optimization of linear classifiers with disturbance subject to a known distribution, resulting in a new kernel, Disturbance Grassmann (DG) kernel. Secondly, we research into two kinds of disturbance, relevant to the subspace matrix and singular values of bases, with which we extend the Projection kernel on Grassmann manifolds to two new kernels. Experiments on action data indicate that the proposed kernels perform better compared to state-of-the-art subspace-based methods, even in a worse environment.

  Coded computation techniques provide robustness against straggling workers in distributed computing. However, most of the existing schemes require exact provisioning of the straggling behaviour and ignore the computations carried out by straggling workers. Moreover, these schemes are typically designed to recover the desired computation results accurately, while in many machine learning and iterative optimization algorithms, faster approximate solutions are known to result in an improvement in the overall convergence time. In this paper, we first introduce a novel coded matrix-vector multiplication scheme, called coded computation with partial recovery (CCPR), which benefits from the advantages of both coded and uncoded computation schemes, and reduces both the computation time and the decoding complexity by allowing a trade-off between the accuracy and the speed of computation. We then extend this approach to distributed implementation of more general computation tasks by proposing a coded communication scheme with partial recovery, where the results of subtasks computed by the workers are coded before being communicated. Numerical simulations on a large linear regression task confirm the benefits of the proposed distributed computation scheme with partial recovery in terms of the trade-off between the computation accuracy and latency.

  In recent years, there has been an increasing interest in exploiting logically specified background knowledge in order to obtain neural models (i) with a better performance, (ii) able to learn from less data, and/or (iii) guaranteed to be compliant with the background knowledge itself, e.g., for safety-critical applications. In this survey, we retrace such works and categorize them based on (i) the logical language that they use to express the background knowledge and (ii) the goals that they achieve.

  We present an approach based on feed-forward neural networks for learning the distribution of textual documents. This approach is inspired by the Neural Autoregressive Distribution Estimator(NADE) model, which has been shown to be a good estimator of the distribution of discrete-valued igh-dimensional vectors. In this paper, we present how NADE can successfully be adapted to the case of textual data, retaining from NADE the property that sampling or computing the probability of observations can be done exactly and efficiently. The approach can also be used to learn deep representations of documents that are competitive to those learned by the alternative topic modeling approaches. Finally, we describe how the approach can be combined with a regular neural network N-gram model and substantially improve its performance, by making its learned representation sensitive to the larger, document-specific context.

  We study constrained online convex optimization, where the constraints consist of a relatively simple constraint set (e.g. a Euclidean ball) and multiple functional constraints. Projections onto such decision sets are usually computationally challenging. So instead of enforcing all constraints over each slot, we allow decisions to violate these functional constraints but aim at achieving a low regret and a low cumulative constraint violation over a horizon of $T$ time slot. The best known bound for solving this problem is $\mathcal{O}(\sqrt{T})$ regret and $\mathcal{O}(1)$ constraint violation, whose algorithms and analysis are restricted to Euclidean spaces. In this paper, we propose a new online primal-dual mirror prox algorithm whose regret is measured via a total gradient variation $V_*(T)$ over a sequence of $T$ loss functions. Specifically, we show that the proposed algorithm can achieve an $\mathcal{O}(\sqrt{V_*(T)})$ regret and $\mathcal{O}(1)$ constraint violation simultaneously. Such a bound holds in general non-Euclidean spaces, is never worse than the previously known $\big( \mathcal{O}(\sqrt{T}), \mathcal{O}(1) \big)$ result, and can be much better on regret when the variation is small. Furthermore, our algorithm is computationally efficient in that only two mirror descent steps are required during each slot instead of solving a general Lagrangian minimization problem. Along the way, our bounds also improve upon those of previous attempts using mirror-prox-type algorithms solving this problem, which yield a relatively worse $\mathcal{O}(T^{2/3})$ regret and $\mathcal{O}(T^{2/3})$ constraint violation.

  In this paper, we study learning and testing decision tree of size and depth that are significantly smaller than the number of attributes $n$.   Our main result addresses the problem of poly$(n,1/\epsilon)$ time algorithms with poly$(s,1/\epsilon)$ query complexity (independent of $n$) that distinguish between functions that are decision trees of size $s$ from functions that are $\epsilon$-far from any decision tree of size $\phi(s,1/\epsilon)$, for some function $\phi > s$. The best known result is the recent one that follows from Blank, Lange and Tan,~\cite{BlancLT20}, that gives $\phi(s,1/\epsilon)=2^{O((\log^3s)/\epsilon^3)}$. In this paper, we give a new algorithm that achieves $\phi(s,1/\epsilon)=2^{O(\log^2 (s/\epsilon))}$.   Moreover, we study the testability of depth-$d$ decision tree and give a {\it distribution free} tester that distinguishes between depth-$d$ decision tree and functions that are $\epsilon$-far from depth-$d^2$ decision tree. In particular, for decision trees of size $s$, the above result holds in the distribution-free model when the tree depth is $O(\log(s/\epsilon))$.   We also give other new results in learning and testing of size-$s$ decision trees and depth-$d$ decision trees that follow from results in the literature and some results we prove in this paper.

  Developing a rapid, but also reliable and efficient, method for classifying the seismic damage potential of buildings constructed in countries with regions of high seismicity is always at the forefront of modern scientific research. Such a technique would be essential for estimating the pre-seismic vulnerability of the buildings, so that the authorities will be able to develop earthquake safety plans for seismic rehabilitation of the highly earthquake-susceptible structures. In the last decades, several researchers have proposed such procedures, some of which were adopted by seismic code guidelines. These procedures usually utilize methods based either on simple calculations or on the application of statistics theory. Recently, the increase of the computers' power has led to the development of modern statistical methods based on the adoption of Machine Learning algorithms. These methods have been shown to be useful for predicting seismic performance and classifying structural damage level by means of extracting patterns from data collected via various sources. A large training dataset is used for the implementation of the classification algorithms. To this end, 90 3D R/C buildings with three different masonry infills' distributions are analysed utilizing Nonlinear Time History Analysis method for 65 real seismic records. The level of the seismic damage is expressed in terms of the Maximum Interstory Drift Ratio. A large number of Machine Learning algorithms is utilized in order to estimate the buildings' damage response. The most significant conclusion which is extracted is that the Machine Learning methods that are mathematically well-established and their operations that are clearly interpretable step by step can be used to solve some of the most sophisticated real-world problems in consideration with high accuracy.

  Federated learning (FL) has become a hot research area in enabling the collaborative training of machine learning models among multiple clients that hold sensitive local data. Nevertheless, unconstrained federated optimization has been studied mainly using stochastic gradient descent (SGD), which may converge slowly, and constrained federated optimization, which is more challenging, has not been investigated so far. This paper investigates sample-based and feature-based federated optimization, respectively, and considers both unconstrained and constrained nonconvex problems for each of them. First, we propose FL algorithms using stochastic successive convex approximation (SSCA) and mini-batch techniques. These algorithms can adequately exploit the structures of the objective and constraint functions and incrementally utilize samples. We show that the proposed FL algorithms converge to stationary points and Karush-Kuhn-Tucker (KKT) points of the respective unconstrained and constrained nonconvex problems, respectively. Next, we provide algorithm examples with appealing computational complexity and communication load per communication round. We show that the proposed algorithm examples for unconstrained federated optimization are identical to FL algorithms via momentum SGD and provide an analytical connection between SSCA and momentum SGD. Finally, numerical experiments demonstrate the inherent advantages of the proposed algorithms in convergence speeds, communication and computation costs, and model specifications.

Physics-Informed Neural Networks have shown unique utility in parameterising the solution of a well-defined partial differential equation using automatic differentiation and residual losses. Though they provide theoretical guarantees of convergence, in practice the required training regimes tend to be exacting and demanding. Through the course of this paper, we take a deep dive into understanding the loss landscapes associated with a PINN and how that offers some insight as to why PINNs are fundamentally hard to optimise for. We demonstrate how PINNs can be forced to converge better towards the solution, by way of feeding in sparse or coarse data as a regulator. The data regulates and morphs the topology of the loss landscape associated with the PINN to make it easily traversable for the minimiser. Data regulation of PINNs helps ease the optimisation required for convergence by invoking a hybrid unsupervised-supervised training approach, where the labelled data pushes the network towards the vicinity of the solution, and the unlabelled regime fine-tunes it to the solution.

  It is well known that we need to choose the hyper-parameters in Momentum, AdaGrad, AdaDelta, and other alternative stochastic optimizers. While in many cases, the hyper-parameters are tuned tediously based on experience becoming more of an art than science. We present a novel per-dimension learning rate method for gradient descent called AdaSmooth. The method is insensitive to hyper-parameters thus it requires no manual tuning of the hyper-parameters like Momentum, AdaGrad, and AdaDelta methods. We show promising results compared to other methods on different convolutional neural networks, multi-layer perceptron, and alternative machine learning tasks. Empirical results demonstrate that AdaSmooth works well in practice and compares favorably to other stochastic optimization methods in neural networks.

  One of the potential solutions for model interpretation is to train a surrogate model: a more transparent model that approximates the behavior of the model to be explained. Typically, classification rules or decision trees are used due to the intelligibility of their logic-based expressions. However, decision trees can grow too deep and rule sets can become too large to approximate a complex model. Unlike paths on a decision tree that must share ancestor nodes (conditions), rules are more flexible. However, the unstructured visual representation of rules makes it hard to make inferences across rules. To address these issues, we present a workflow that includes novel algorithmic and interactive solutions. First, we present Hierarchical Surrogate Rules (HSR), an algorithm that generates hierarchical rules based on user-defined parameters. We also contribute SuRE, a visual analytics (VA) system that integrates HSR and interactive surrogate rule visualizations. Particularly, we present a novel feature-aligned tree to overcome the shortcomings of existing rule visualizations. We evaluate the algorithm in terms of parameter sensitivity, time performance, and comparison with surrogate decision trees and find that it scales reasonably well and outperforms decision trees in many respects. We also evaluate the visualization and the VA system by a usability study with 24 volunteers and an observational study with 7 domain experts. Our investigation shows that the participants can use feature-aligned trees to perform non-trivial tasks with very high accuracy. We also discuss many interesting observations that can be useful for future research on designing effective rule-based VA systems.

  Many believe that the successes of deep learning on image understanding problems can be replicated in the realm of video understanding. However, due to the scale and temporal nature of video, the span of video understanding problems and the set of proposed deep learning solutions is arguably wider and more diverse than those of their 2D image siblings. Finding, identifying, and predicting actions are a few of the most salient tasks in this emerging and rapidly evolving field. With a pedagogical emphasis, this tutorial introduces and systematizes fundamental topics, basic concepts, and notable examples in supervised video action understanding. Specifically, we clarify a taxonomy of action problems, catalog and highlight video datasets, describe common video data preparation methods, present the building blocks of state-of-the art deep learning model architectures, and formalize domain-specific metrics to baseline proposed solutions. This tutorial is intended to be accessible to a general computer science audience and assumes a conceptual understanding of supervised learning.

  Knitted fabric exhibits avalanche-like events when deformed: by analogy with eathquakes, we are interested in predicting these "knitquakes". However, as in most analogous seismic models, the peculiar statistics of the corresponding time-series severely jeopardize this endeavour, due to the time intermittence and scale-invariance of these events. But more importantly, such predictions are hard to {\it assess}: depending on the choice of what to predict, the results can be very different and not easily compared. Furthermore, forecasting models may be trained with various generic metrics which ignore some important specificities of the problem at hand, in our case seismic risk. Finally, these models often do not provide a clear strategy regarding the best way to use these predictions in practice. Here we introduce a framework that allows to design, evaluate and compare not only predictors but also decision-making policies: a model seismically active {\it city} subjected to the crackling dynamics observed in the mechanical response of knitted fabric. We thus proceed to study the population of KnitCity, introducing a policy through which the mayor of the town can decide to either keep people in, which in case of large events cause human loss, or evacuate the city, which costs a daily fee. The policy only relies on past seismic observations. We construct efficient policies using a reinforcement learning environment and various time-series predictors based on artificial neural networks. By inducing a physically motivated metric on the predictors, this mechanism allows quantitative assessment and comparison of their relevance in the decision-making process.

  Credit rating is an analysis of the credit risks associated with a corporation, which reflect the level of the riskiness and reliability in investing. There have emerged many studies that implement machine learning techniques to deal with corporate credit rating. However, the ability of these models is limited by enormous amounts of data from financial statement reports. In this work, we analyze the performance of traditional machine learning models in predicting corporate credit rating. For utilizing the powerful convolutional neural networks and enormous financial data, we propose a novel end-to-end method, Corporate Credit Ratings via Convolutional Neural Networks, CCR-CNN for brevity. In the proposed model, each corporation is transformed into an image. Based on this image, CNN can capture complex feature interactions of data, which are difficult to be revealed by previous machine learning models. Extensive experiments conducted on the Chinese public-listed corporate rating dataset which we build, prove that CCR-CNN outperforms the state-of-the-art methods consistently.

  We argue that immature data pipelines are preventing a large portion of industry practitioners from leveraging the latest research on recommender systems. We propose our template data stack for machine learning at "reasonable scale", and show how many challenges are solved by embracing a serverless paradigm. Leveraging our experience, we detail how modern open source can provide a pipeline processing terabytes of data with limited infrastructure work.

  There is nowadays a constant flux of data being generated and collected in all types of real world systems. These data sets are often indexed by time, space or both requiring appropriate approaches to analyze the data. In univariate settings, time series analysis is a mature and solid field. However, in multivariate contexts, time series analysis still presents many limitations. In order to address these issues, the last decade has brought approaches based on network science. These methods involve transforming an initial time series data set into one or more networks, which can be analyzed in depth to provide insight into the original time series. This review provides a comprehensive overview of existing mapping methods for transforming time series into networks for a wide audience of researchers and practitioners in machine learning, data mining and time series. Our main contribution is a structured review of existing methodologies, identifying their main characteristics and their differences. We describe the main conceptual approaches, provide authoritative references and give insight into their advantages and limitations in a unified notation and language. We first describe the case of univariate time series, which can be mapped to single layer networks, and we divide the current mappings based on the underlying concept: visibility, transition and proximity. We then proceed with multivariate time series discussing both single layer and multiple layer approaches. Although still very recent, this research area has much potential and with this survey we intend to pave the way for future research on the topic.

  This paper addresses the trade-off between Accuracy and Transparency for deep learning applied to sports analytics. Neural nets achieve great predictive accuracy through deep learning, and are popular in sports analytics. But it is hard to interpret a neural net model and harder still to extract actionable insights from the knowledge implicit in it. Therefore, we built a simple and transparent model that mimics the output of the original deep learning model and represents the learned knowledge in an explicit interpretable way. Our mimic model is a linear model tree, which combines a collection of linear models with a regression-tree structure. The tree version of a neural network achieves high fidelity, explains itself, and produces insights for expert stakeholders such as athletes and coaches. We propose and compare several scalable model tree learning heuristics to address the computational challenge from datasets with millions of data points.

  Query categorization is an essential part of query intent understanding in e-commerce search. A common query categorization task is to select the relevant fine-grained product categories in a product taxonomy. For frequent queries, rich customer behavior (e.g., click-through data) can be used to infer the relevant product categories. However, for more rare queries, which cover a large volume of search traffic, relying solely on customer behavior may not suffice due to the lack of this signal. To improve categorization of rare queries, we adapt the Pseudo-Relevance Feedback (PRF) approach to utilize the latent knowledge embedded in semantically or lexically similar product documents to enrich the representation of the more rare queries. To this end, we propose a novel deep neural model named Attentive Pseudo Relevance Feedback Network (APRF-Net) to enhance the representation of rare queries for query categorization. To demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach, we collect search queries from a large commercial search engine, and compare APRF-Net to state-of-the-art deep learning models for text classification. Our results show that the APRF-Net significantly improves query categorization by 5.9% on F1@1 score over the baselines, which increases to 8.2% improvement for the rare (tail) queries. The findings of this paper can be leveraged for further improvements in search query representation and understanding.

  This paper describes the method of visualization of periodic constituents and instability areas in series of measurements, being based on the algorithm of smoothing out and concept of one-dimensional cellular automata. A method can be used at the analysis of temporal series, related to the volumes of thematic publications in web-space.

  Over the past decade the rate of care unit (CU) use in the United States has been increasing. With an aging population and ever-growing demand for medical care, effective management of patients' transitions among different care facilities will prove indispensible for shortening the length of hospital stays, improving patient outcomes, allocating critical care resources, and reducing preventable re-admissions. In this paper, we focus on an important problem of predicting the so-called "patient flow" from longitudinal electronic health records (EHRs), which has not been explored via existing machine learning techniques. By treating a sequence of transition events as a point process, we develop a novel framework for modeling patient flow through various CUs and jointly predicting patients' destination CUs and duration days. Instead of learning a generative point process model via maximum likelihood estimation, we propose a novel discriminative learning algorithm aiming at improving the prediction of transition events in the case of sparse data. By parameterizing the proposed model as a mutually-correcting process, we formulate the estimation problem via generalized linear models, which lends itself to efficient learning based on alternating direction method of multipliers (ADMM). Furthermore, we achieve simultaneous feature selection and learning by adding a group-lasso regularizer to the ADMM algorithm. Additionally, for suppressing the negative influence of data imbalance on the learning of model, we synthesize auxiliary training data for the classes with extremely few samples, and improve the robustness of our learning method accordingly. Testing on real-world data, we show that our method obtains superior performance in terms of accuracy of predicting the destination CU transition and duration of each CU occupancy.

  Transformer models have advanced the state of the art in many Natural Language Processing (NLP) tasks. In this paper, we present a new Transformer architecture, Extended Transformer Construction (ETC), that addresses two key challenges of standard Transformer architectures, namely scaling input length and encoding structured inputs. To scale attention to longer inputs, we introduce a novel global-local attention mechanism between global tokens and regular input tokens. We also show that combining global-local attention with relative position encodings and a Contrastive Predictive Coding (CPC) pre-training objective allows ETC to encode structured inputs. We achieve state-of-the-art results on four natural language datasets requiring long and/or structured inputs.

  Reinforcement learning (RL) is a promising data-driven approach for adaptive traffic signal control (ATSC) in complex urban traffic networks, and deep neural networks further enhance its learning power. However, centralized RL is infeasible for large-scale ATSC due to the extremely high dimension of the joint action space. Multi-agent RL (MARL) overcomes the scalability issue by distributing the global control to each local RL agent, but it introduces new challenges: now the environment becomes partially observable from the viewpoint of each local agent due to limited communication among agents. Most existing studies in MARL focus on designing efficient communication and coordination among traditional Q-learning agents. This paper presents, for the first time, a fully scalable and decentralized MARL algorithm for the state-of-the-art deep RL agent: advantage actor critic (A2C), within the context of ATSC. In particular, two methods are proposed to stabilize the learning procedure, by improving the observability and reducing the learning difficulty of each local agent. The proposed multi-agent A2C is compared against independent A2C and independent Q-learning algorithms, in both a large synthetic traffic grid and a large real-world traffic network of Monaco city, under simulated peak-hour traffic dynamics. Results demonstrate its optimality, robustness, and sample efficiency over other state-of-the-art decentralized MARL algorithms.

  This review deals with Restricted Boltzmann Machine (RBM) under the light of statistical physics. The RBM is a classical family of Machine learning (ML) models which played a central role in the development of deep learning. Viewing it as a Spin Glass model and exhibiting various links with other models of statistical physics, we gather recent results dealing with mean-field theory in this context. First the functioning of the RBM can be analyzed via the phase diagrams obtained for various statistical ensembles of RBM leading in particular to identify a {\it compositional phase} where a small number of features or modes are combined to form complex patterns. Then we discuss recent works either able to devise mean-field based learning algorithms; either able to reproduce generic aspects of the learning process from some {\it ensemble dynamics equations} or/and from linear stability arguments.

  Deep spiking neural networks (SNNs) have emerged as a potential alternative to traditional deep learning frameworks, due to their promise to provide increased compute efficiency on event-driven neuromorphic hardware. However, to perform well on complex vision applications, most SNN training frameworks yield large inference latency which translates to increased spike activity and reduced energy efficiency. Hence,minimizing average spike activity while preserving accuracy indeep SNNs remains a significant challenge and opportunity.This paper presents a non-iterative SNN training technique thatachieves ultra-high compression with reduced spiking activitywhile maintaining high inference accuracy. In particular, our framework first uses the attention-maps of an un compressed meta-model to yield compressed ANNs. This step can be tuned to support both irregular and structured channel pruning to leverage computational benefits over a broad range of platforms. The framework then performs sparse-learning-based supervised SNN training using direct inputs. During the training, it jointly optimizes the SNN weight, threshold, and leak parameters to drastically minimize the number of time steps required while retaining compression. To evaluate the merits of our approach, we performed experiments with variants of VGG and ResNet, on both CIFAR-10 and CIFAR-100, and VGG16 on Tiny-ImageNet.The SNN models generated through the proposed technique yield SOTA compression ratios of up to 33.4x with no significant drops in accuracy compared to baseline unpruned counterparts. Compared to existing SNN pruning methods, we achieve up to 8.3x higher compression with improved accuracy.

  In this paper, we propose a capsule-based neural network model to solve the semantic segmentation problem. By taking advantage of the extractable part-whole dependencies available in capsule layers, we derive the probabilities of the class labels for individual capsules through a recursive, layer-by-layer procedure. We model this procedure as a traceback pipeline and take it as a central piece to build an end-to-end segmentation network. Under the proposed framework, image-level class labels and object boundaries are jointly sought in an explicit manner, which poses a significant advantage over the state-of-the-art fully convolutional network (FCN) solutions. With the capability to extracted part-whole information, our traceback pipeline can potentially be utilized as the building blocks to design interpretable neural networks. Experiments conducted on modified MNIST and neuroimages demonstrate that our model considerably enhance the segmentation performance compared to the leading FCN variants.

  Conditional belief networks introduce stochastic binary variables in neural networks. Contrary to a classical neural network, a belief network can predict more than the expected value of the output $Y$ given the input $X$. It can predict a distribution of outputs $Y$ which is useful when an input can admit multiple outputs whose average is not necessarily a valid answer. Such networks are particularly relevant to inverse problems such as image prediction for denoising, or text to speech. However, traditional sigmoid belief networks are hard to train and are not suited to continuous problems. This work introduces a new family of networks called linearizing belief nets or LBNs. A LBN decomposes into a deep linear network where each linear unit can be turned on or off by non-deterministic binary latent units. It is a universal approximator of real-valued conditional distributions and can be trained using gradient descent. Moreover, the linear pathways efficiently propagate continuous information and they act as multiplicative skip-connections that help optimization by removing gradient diffusion. This yields a model which trains efficiently and improves the state-of-the-art on image denoising and facial expression generation with the Toronto faces dataset.

  In the last decade, the approximate vanishing ideal and its basis construction algorithms have been extensively studied in computer algebra and machine learning as a general model to reconstruct the algebraic variety on which noisy data approximately lie. In particular, the basis construction algorithms developed in machine learning are widely used in applications across many fields because of their monomial-order-free property; however, they lose many of the theoretical properties of computer-algebraic algorithms. In this paper, we propose general methods that equip monomial-order-free algorithms with several advantageous theoretical properties. Specifically, we exploit the gradient to (i) sidestep the spurious vanishing problem in polynomial time to remove symbolically trivial redundant bases, (ii) achieve consistent output with respect to the translation and scaling of input, and (iii) remove nontrivially redundant bases. The proposed methods work in a fully numerical manner, whereas existing algorithms require the awkward monomial order or exponentially costly (and mostly symbolic) computation to realize properties (i) and (iii). To our knowledge, property (ii) has not been achieved by any existing basis construction algorithm of the approximate vanishing ideal.

  In order to enhance levels of engagement with conversational systems, our long term research goal seeks to monitor the confusion state of a user and adapt dialogue policies in response to such user confusion states. To this end, in this paper, we present our initial research centred on a user-avatar dialogue scenario that we have developed to study the manifestation of confusion and in the long term its mitigation. We present a new definition of confusion that is particularly tailored to the requirements of intelligent conversational system development for task-oriented dialogue. We also present the details of our Wizard-of-Oz based data collection scenario wherein users interacted with a conversational avatar and were presented with stimuli that were in some cases designed to invoke a confused state in the user. Post study analysis of this data is also presented. Here, three pre-trained deep learning models were deployed to estimate base emotion, head pose and eye gaze. Despite a small pilot study group, our analysis demonstrates a significant relationship between these indicators and confusion states. We understand this as a useful step forward in the automated analysis of the pragmatics of dialogue.

  Leverage score sampling provides an appealing way to perform approximate computations for large matrices. Indeed, it allows to derive faithful approximations with a complexity adapted to the problem at hand. Yet, performing leverage scores sampling is a challenge in its own right requiring further approximations. In this paper, we study the problem of leverage score sampling for positive definite matrices defined by a kernel. Our contribution is twofold. First we provide a novel algorithm for leverage score sampling and second, we exploit the proposed method in statistical learning by deriving a novel solver for kernel ridge regression. Our main technical contribution is showing that the proposed algorithms are currently the most efficient and accurate for these problems.

  In this work, we investigate the use of three information-theoretic quantities -- entropy, mutual information with the class variable, and a class selectivity measure based on Kullback-Leibler divergence -- to understand and study the behavior of already trained fully-connected feed-forward neural networks. We analyze the connection between these information-theoretic quantities and classification performance on the test set by cumulatively ablating neurons in networks trained on MNIST, FashionMNIST, and CIFAR-10. Our results parallel those recently published by Morcos et al., indicating that class selectivity is not a good indicator for classification performance. However, looking at individual layers separately, both mutual information and class selectivity are positively correlated with classification performance, at least for networks with ReLU activation functions. We provide explanations for this phenomenon and conclude that it is ill-advised to compare the proposed information-theoretic quantities across layers. Furthermore, we show that cumulative ablation of neurons with ascending or descending information-theoretic quantities can be used to formulate hypotheses regarding the joint behavior of multiple neurons, such as redundancy and synergy, with comparably low computational cost. We also draw connections to the information bottleneck theory for neural networks.

  Non-linear kernel methods can be approximated by fast linear ones using suitable explicit feature maps allowing their application to large scale problems. We investigate how convolution kernels for structured data are composed from base kernels and construct corresponding feature maps. On this basis we propose exact and approximative feature maps for widely used graph kernels based on the kernel trick. We analyze for which kernels and graph properties computation by explicit feature maps is feasible and actually more efficient. In particular, we derive approximative, explicit feature maps for state-of-the-art kernels supporting real-valued attributes including the GraphHopper and graph invariant kernels. In extensive experiments we show that our approaches often achieve a classification accuracy close to the exact methods based on the kernel trick, but require only a fraction of their running time. Moreover, we propose and analyze algorithms for computing random walk, shortest-path and subgraph matching kernels by explicit and implicit feature maps. Our theoretical results are confirmed experimentally by observing a phase transition when comparing running time with respect to label diversity, walk lengths and subgraph size, respectively.

  The increasing complexity of today's software requires the contribution of thousands of developers. This complex collaboration structure makes developers more likely to introduce defect-prone changes that lead to software faults. Determining when these defect-prone changes are introduced has proven challenging, and using traditional machine learning (ML) methods to make these determinations seems to have reached a plateau. In this work, we build contribution graphs consisting of developers and source files to capture the nuanced complexity of changes required to build software. By leveraging these contribution graphs, our research shows the potential of using graph-based ML to improve Just-In-Time (JIT) defect prediction. We hypothesize that features extracted from the contribution graphs may be better predictors of defect-prone changes than intrinsic features derived from software characteristics. We corroborate our hypothesis using graph-based ML for classifying edges that represent defect-prone changes. This new framing of the JIT defect prediction problem leads to remarkably better results. We test our approach on 14 open-source projects and show that our best model can predict whether or not a code change will lead to a defect with an F1 score as high as 86.25$\%$. This represents an increase of as much as 55.4$\%$ over the state-of-the-art in JIT defect prediction. We describe limitations, open challenges, and how this method can be used for operational JIT defect prediction.

  Social media sources can provide crucial information in crisis situations, but discovering relevant messages is not trivial. Methods have so far focused on universal detection models for all kinds of crises or for certain crisis types (e.g. floods). Event-specific models could implement a more focused search area, but collecting data and training new models for a crisis that is already in progress is costly and may take too much time for a prompt response. As a compromise, manually collecting a small amount of example messages is feasible. Few-shot models can generalize to unseen classes with such a small handful of examples, and do not need be trained anew for each event. We compare how few-shot approaches (matching networks and prototypical networks) perform for this task. Since this is essentially a one-class problem, we also demonstrate how a modified one-class version of prototypical models can be used for this application.

  As more users across the world are interacting with dialog agents in their daily life, there is a need for better speech understanding that calls for renewed attention to the dynamics between research in automatic speech recognition (ASR) and natural language understanding (NLU). We briefly review these research areas and lay out the current relationship between them. In light of the observations we make in this paper, we argue that (1) NLU should be cognizant of the presence of ASR models being used upstream in a dialog system's pipeline, (2) ASR should be able to learn from errors found in NLU, (3) there is a need for end-to-end datasets that provide semantic annotations on spoken input, (4) there should be stronger collaboration between ASR and NLU research communities.

  Pruning large neural networks while maintaining their performance is often desirable due to the reduced space and time complexity. In existing methods, pruning is done within an iterative optimization procedure with either heuristically designed pruning schedules or additional hyperparameters, undermining their utility. In this work, we present a new approach that prunes a given network once at initialization prior to training. To achieve this, we introduce a saliency criterion based on connection sensitivity that identifies structurally important connections in the network for the given task. This eliminates the need for both pretraining and the complex pruning schedule while making it robust to architecture variations. After pruning, the sparse network is trained in the standard way. Our method obtains extremely sparse networks with virtually the same accuracy as the reference network on the MNIST, CIFAR-10, and Tiny-ImageNet classification tasks and is broadly applicable to various architectures including convolutional, residual and recurrent networks. Unlike existing methods, our approach enables us to demonstrate that the retained connections are indeed relevant to the given task.

  Market economy closely connects aspects to all walks of life. The stock forecast is one of task among studies on the market economy. However, information on markets economy contains a lot of noise and uncertainties, which lead economy forecasting to become a challenging task. Ensemble learning and deep learning are the most methods to solve the stock forecast task. In this paper, we present a model combining the advantages of two methods to forecast the change of stock price. The proposed method combines CNN and GBoost. The experimental results on six market indexes show that the proposed method has better performance against current popular methods.

  Radio access network (RAN) technologies continue to witness massive growth, with Open RAN gaining the most recent momentum. In the O-RAN specifications, the RAN intelligent controller (RIC) serves as an automation host. This article introduces principles for machine learning (ML), in particular, reinforcement learning (RL) relevant for the O-RAN stack. Furthermore, we review state-of-the-art research in wireless networks and cast it onto the RAN framework and the hierarchy of the O-RAN architecture. We provide a taxonomy of the challenges faced by ML/RL models throughout the development life-cycle: from the system specification to production deployment (data acquisition, model design, testing and management, etc.). To address the challenges, we integrate a set of existing MLOps principles with unique characteristics when RL agents are considered. This paper discusses a systematic life-cycle model development, testing and validation pipeline, termed: RLOps. We discuss all fundamental parts of RLOps, which include: model specification, development and distillation, production environment serving, operations monitoring, safety/security and data engineering platform. Based on these principles, we propose the best practices for RLOps to achieve an automated and reproducible model development process.

  Understanding the evolution of job requirements is becoming more important for workers, companies and public organizations to follow the fast transformation of the employment market. Fortunately, recent natural language processing (NLP) approaches allow for the development of methods to automatically extract information from job ads and recognize skills more precisely. However, these efficient approaches need a large amount of annotated data from the studied domain which is difficult to access, mainly due to intellectual property. This article proposes a new public dataset, FIJO, containing insurance job offers, including many soft skill annotations. To understand the potential of this dataset, we detail some characteristics and some limitations. Then, we present the results of skill detection algorithms using a named entity recognition approach and show that transformers-based models have good token-wise performances on this dataset. Lastly, we analyze some errors made by our best model to emphasize the difficulties that may arise when applying NLP approaches.

  This work investigates the problem of estimating the weight matrices of a stable time-invariant linear dynamical system from a single sequence of noisy measurements. We show that if the unknown weight matrices describing the system are in Brunovsky canonical form, we can efficiently estimate the ground truth unknown matrices of the system from a linear system of equations formulated based on the transfer function of the system, using both online and offline stochastic gradient descent (SGD) methods. Specifically, by deriving concrete complexity bounds, we show that SGD converges linearly in expectation to any arbitrary small Frobenius norm distance from the ground truth weights. To the best of our knowledge, ours is the first work to establish linear convergence characteristics for online and offline gradient-based iterative methods for weight matrix estimation in linear dynamical systems from a single trajectory. Extensive numerical tests verify that the performance of the proposed methods is consistent with our theory, and show their superior performance relative to existing state of the art methods.

  The Variational Autoencoder (VAE) is a powerful architecture capable of representation learning and generative modeling. When it comes to learning interpretable (disentangled) representations, VAE and its variants show unparalleled performance. However, the reasons for this are unclear, since a very particular alignment of the latent embedding is needed but the design of the VAE does not encourage it in any explicit way. We address this matter and offer the following explanation: the diagonal approximation in the encoder together with the inherent stochasticity force local orthogonality of the decoder. The local behavior of promoting both reconstruction and orthogonality matches closely how the PCA embedding is chosen. Alongside providing an intuitive understanding, we justify the statement with full theoretical analysis as well as with experiments.

  A two-layer neural network model that systematically includes correlations among input variables to arbitrary order and is designed to implement Bayes inference has been adapted to classify breast cancer tumors as malignant or benign, assigning a probability for either outcome. The inputs to the network represent measured characteristics of cell nuclei imaged in Fine Needle Aspiration biopsies. The present machine-learning approach to diagnosis (known as HOPP, for higher-order probabilistic perceptron) is tested on the much-studied, open-access Breast Cancer Wisconsin (Diagnosis) Data Set of Wolberg et al. This set lists, for each tumor, measured physical parameters of the cell nuclei of each sample. The HOPP model can identify the key factors -- input features and their combinations -- most relevant for reliable diagnosis. HOPP networks were trained on 90\% of the examples in the Wisconsin database, and tested on the remaining 10\%. Referred to ensembles of 300 networks, selected randomly for cross-validation, accuracy of classification for the test sets of up to 97\% was readily achieved, with standard deviation around 2\%, together with average Matthews correlation coefficients reaching 0.94 indicating excellent predictive performance. Demonstrably, the HOPP is capable of matching the predictive power attained by other advanced machine-learning algorithms applied to this much-studied database, over several decades. Analysis shows that in this special problem, which is almost linearly separable, the effects of irreducible correlations among the measured features of the Wisconsin database are of relatively minor importance, as the Naive Bayes approximation can itself yield predictive accuracy approaching 95\%. The advantages of the HOPP algorithm will be more clearly revealed in application to more challenging machine-learning problems.

  Active inference is a mathematical framework which originated in computational neuroscience as a theory of how the brain implements action, perception and learning. Recently, it has been shown to be a promising approach to the problems of state-estimation and control under uncertainty, as well as a foundation for the construction of goal-driven behaviours in robotics and artificial agents in general. Here, we review the state-of-the-art theory and implementations of active inference for state-estimation, control, planning and learning; describing current achievements with a particular focus on robotics. We showcase relevant experiments that illustrate its potential in terms of adaptation, generalization and robustness. Furthermore, we connect this approach with other frameworks and discuss its expected benefits and challenges: a unified framework with functional biological plausibility using variational Bayesian inference.

  We introduce a general framework for approximating regular conditional distributions (RCDs). Our approximations of these RCDs are implemented by a new class of geometric deep learning models with inputs in $\mathbb{R}^d$ and outputs in the Wasserstein-$1$ space $\mathcal{P}_1(\mathbb{R}^D)$. We find that the models built using our framework can approximate any continuous functions from $\mathbb{R}^d$ to $\mathcal{P}_1(\mathbb{R}^D)$ uniformly on compacts, and quantitative rates are obtained. We identify two methods for avoiding the "curse of dimensionality"; i.e.: the number of parameters determining the approximating neural network depends only polynomially on the involved dimension and the approximation error. The first solution describes functions in $C(\mathbb{R}^d,\mathcal{P}_1(\mathbb{R}^D))$ which can be efficiently approximated on any compact subset of $\mathbb{R}^d$. Conversely, the second approach describes sets in $\mathbb{R}^d$, on which any function in $C(\mathbb{R}^d,\mathcal{P}_1(\mathbb{R}^D))$ can be efficiently approximated. Our framework is used to obtain an affirmative answer to the open conjecture of Bishop (1994); namely: mixture density networks are universal regular conditional distributions. The predictive performance of the proposed models is evaluated against comparable learning models on various probabilistic predictions tasks in the context of ELMs, model uncertainty, and heteroscedastic regression. All the results are obtained for more general input and output spaces and thus apply to geometric deep learning contexts.

  We propose an information-theoretic technique for analyzing privacy guarantees of online algorithms. Specifically, we demonstrate that differential privacy guarantees of iterative algorithms can be determined by a direct application of contraction coefficients derived from strong data processing inequalities for $f$-divergences. Our technique relies on generalizing the Dobrushin's contraction coefficient for total variation distance to an $f$-divergence known as $E_\gamma$-divergence. $E_\gamma$-divergence, in turn, is equivalent to approximate differential privacy. As an example, we apply our technique to derive the differential privacy parameters of gradient descent. Moreover, we also show that this framework can be tailored to batch learning algorithms that can be implemented with one pass over the training dataset.

  Many complex natural and cultural phenomena are well modelled by systems of simple interactions between particles. A number of architectures have been developed to articulate this kind of structure, both implicitly and explicitly. We consider an unsupervised explicit model, the NRI model, and make a series of representational adaptations and physically motivated changes. Most notably we factorise the inferred latent interaction graph into a multiplex graph, allowing each layer to encode for a different interaction-type. This fNRI model is smaller in size and significantly outperforms the original in both edge and trajectory prediction, establishing a new state-of-the-art. We also present a simplified variant of our model, which demonstrates the NRI's formulation as a variational auto-encoder is not necessary for good performance, and make an adaptation to the NRI's training routine, significantly improving its ability to model complex physical dynamical systems.

  k Nearest Neighbor (kNN) method is a simple and popular statistical method for classification and regression. For both classification and regression problems, existing works have shown that, if the distribution of the feature vector has bounded support and the probability density function is bounded away from zero in its support, the convergence rate of the standard kNN method, in which k is the same for all test samples, is minimax optimal. On the contrary, if the distribution has unbounded support, we show that there is a gap between the convergence rate achieved by the standard kNN method and the minimax bound. To close this gap, we propose an adaptive kNN method, in which different k is selected for different samples. Our selection rule does not require precise knowledge of the underlying distribution of features. The new proposed method significantly outperforms the standard one. We characterize the convergence rate of the proposed adaptive method, and show that it matches the minimax lower bound.

  Many measurements in the physical sciences can be cast as counting experiments, where the number of occurrences of a physical phenomenon informs the prevalence of the phenomenon's source. Often, detection of the physical phenomenon (termed signal) is difficult to distinguish from naturally occurring phenomena (termed background). In this case, the discrimination of signal events from background can be performed using classifiers, and they may range from simple, threshold-based classifiers to sophisticated neural networks. These classifiers are often trained and validated to obtain optimal accuracy, however we show that the optimal accuracy classifier does not generally coincide with a classifier that provides the lowest detection limit, nor the lowest quantification uncertainty. We present a derivation of the detection limit and quantification uncertainty in the classifier-based counting experiment case. We also present a novel abstention mechanism to minimize the detection limit or quantification uncertainty \emph{a posteriori}. We illustrate the method on two data sets from the physical sciences, discriminating Ar-37 and Ar-39 radioactive decay from non-radioactive events in a gas proportional counter, and discriminating neutrons from photons in an inorganic scintillator and report results therefrom.

  Understanding the impact of data structure on the computational tractability of learning is a key challenge for the theory of neural networks. Many theoretical works do not explicitly model training data, or assume that inputs are drawn component-wise independently from some simple probability distribution. Here, we go beyond this simple paradigm by studying the performance of neural networks trained on data drawn from pre-trained generative models. This is possible due to a Gaussian equivalence stating that the key metrics of interest, such as the training and test errors, can be fully captured by an appropriately chosen Gaussian model. We provide three strands of rigorous, analytical and numerical evidence corroborating this equivalence. First, we establish rigorous conditions for the Gaussian equivalence to hold in the case of single-layer generative models, as well as deterministic rates for convergence in distribution. Second, we leverage this equivalence to derive a closed set of equations describing the generalisation performance of two widely studied machine learning problems: two-layer neural networks trained using one-pass stochastic gradient descent, and full-batch pre-learned features or kernel methods. Finally, we perform experiments demonstrating how our theory applies to deep, pre-trained generative models. These results open a viable path to the theoretical study of machine learning models with realistic data.

  Arrhythmia detection from ECG is an important research subject in the prevention and diagnosis of cardiovascular diseases. The prevailing studies formulate arrhythmia detection from ECG as a time series classification problem. Meanwhile, early detection of arrhythmia presents a real-world demand for early prevention and diagnosis. In this paper, we address a problem of cardiovascular disease early classification, which is a varied-length and long-length time series early classification problem as well. For solving this problem, we propose a deep reinforcement learning-based framework, namely Snippet Policy Network (SPN), consisting of four modules, snippet generator, backbone network, controlling agent, and discriminator. Comparing to the existing approaches, the proposed framework features flexible input length, solves the dual-optimization solution of the earliness and accuracy goals. Experimental results demonstrate that SPN achieves an excellent performance of over 80\% in terms of accuracy. Compared to the state-of-the-art methods, at least 7% improvement on different metrics, including the precision, recall, F1-score, and harmonic mean, is delivered by the proposed SPN. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work focusing on solving the cardiovascular early classification problem based on varied-length ECG data. Based on these excellent features from SPN, it offers a good exemplification for addressing all kinds of varied-length time series early classification problems.

  Machine learning algorithms deployed on edge devices must meet certain resource constraints and efficiency requirements. Random Vector Functional Link (RVFL) networks are favored for such applications due to their simple design and training efficiency. We propose a modified RVFL network that avoids computationally expensive matrix operations during training, thus expanding the network's range of potential applications. Our modification replaces the least-squares classifier with the Generalized Learning Vector Quantization (GLVQ) classifier, which only employs simple vector and distance calculations. The GLVQ classifier can also be considered an improvement upon certain classification algorithms popularly used in the area of Hyperdimensional Computing. The proposed approach achieved state-of-the-art accuracy on a collection of datasets from the UCI Machine Learning Repository - higher than previously proposed RVFL networks. We further demonstrate that our approach still achieves high accuracy while severely limited in training iterations (using on average only 21% of the least-squares classifier computational costs).

  Like many problems in AI in their general form, supervised learning is computationally intractable. We hypothesize that an important reason humans can learn highly complex and varied concepts, in spite of the computational difficulty, is that they benefit tremendously from experienced and insightful teachers. This paper proposes a new learning framework that provides a role for a knowledgeable, benevolent teacher to guide the process of learning a target concept in a series of "curricular" phases or rounds. In each round, the teacher's role is to act as a moderator, exposing the learner to a subset of the available training data to move it closer to mastering the target concept. Via both theoretical and empirical evidence, we argue that this framework enables simple, efficient learners to acquire very complex concepts from examples. In particular, we provide multiple examples of concept classes that are known to be unlearnable in the standard PAC setting along with provably efficient algorithms for learning them in our extended setting. A key focus of our work is the ability to learn complex concepts on top of simpler, previously learned, concepts---a direction with the potential of creating more competent artificial agents.

Recent theoretical studies have shown that heavy-tails can emerge in stochastic optimization due to `multiplicative noise', even under surprisingly simple settings, such as linear regression with Gaussian data. While these studies have uncovered several interesting phenomena, they consider conventional stochastic optimization problems, which exclude decentralized settings that naturally arise in modern machine learning applications. In this paper, we study the emergence of heavy-tails in decentralized stochastic gradient descent (DE-SGD), and investigate the effect of decentralization on the tail behavior. We first show that, when the loss function at each computational node is twice continuously differentiable and strongly convex outside a compact region, the law of the DE-SGD iterates converges to a distribution with polynomially decaying (heavy) tails. To have a more explicit control on the tail exponent, we then consider the case where the loss at each node is a quadratic, and show that the tail-index can be estimated as a function of the step-size, batch-size, and the topological properties of the network of the computational nodes. Then, we provide theoretical and empirical results showing that DE-SGD has heavier tails than centralized SGD. We also compare DE-SGD to disconnected SGD where nodes distribute the data but do not communicate. Our theory uncovers an interesting interplay between the tails and the network structure: we identify two regimes of parameters (stepsize and network size), where DE-SGD can have lighter or heavier tails than disconnected SGD depending on the regime. Finally, to support our theoretical results, we provide numerical experiments conducted on both synthetic data and neural networks.

  Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) are very popular frameworks for generating high-quality data, and are immensely used in both the academia and industry in many domains. Arguably, their most substantial impact has been in the area of computer vision, where they achieve state-of-the-art image generation. This chapter gives an introduction to GANs, by discussing their principle mechanism and presenting some of their inherent problems during training and evaluation. We focus on these three issues: (1) mode collapse, (2) vanishing gradients, and (3) generation of low-quality images. We then list some architecture-variant and loss-variant GANs that remedy the above challenges. Lastly, we present two utilization examples of GANs for real-world applications: Data augmentation and face images generation.

  A natural problem in high-dimensional inference is to decide if a classifier $f:\mathbb{R}^n \rightarrow \{-1,1\}$ depends on a small number of linear directions of its input data. Call a function $g: \mathbb{R}^n \rightarrow \{-1,1\}$, a linear $k$-junta if it is completely determined by some $k$-dimensional subspace of the input space. A recent work of the authors showed that linear $k$-juntas are testable. Thus there exists an algorithm to distinguish between: 1. $f: \mathbb{R}^n \rightarrow \{-1,1\}$ which is a linear $k$-junta with surface area $s$, 2. $f$ is $\epsilon$-far from any linear $k$-junta with surface area $(1+\epsilon)s$, where the query complexity of the algorithm is independent of the ambient dimension $n$.   Following the surge of interest in noise-tolerant property testing, in this paper we prove a noise-tolerant (or robust) version of this result. Namely, we give an algorithm which given any $c>0$, $\epsilon>0$, distinguishes between 1. $f: \mathbb{R}^n \rightarrow \{-1,1\}$ has correlation at least $c$ with some linear $k$-junta with surface area $s$. 2. $f$ has correlation at most $c-\epsilon$ with any linear $k$-junta with surface area at most $s$. The query complexity of our tester is $k^{\mathsf{poly}(s/\epsilon)}$.   Using our techniques, we also obtain a fully noise tolerant tester with the same query complexity for any class $\mathcal{C}$ of linear $k$-juntas with surface area bounded by $s$. As a consequence, we obtain a fully noise tolerant tester with query complexity $k^{O(\mathsf{poly}(\log k/\epsilon))}$ for the class of intersection of $k$-halfspaces (for constant $k$) over the Gaussian space. Our query complexity is independent of the ambient dimension $n$. Previously, no non-trivial noise tolerant testers were known even for a single halfspace.

  Power consumption data is very useful as it allows to optimize power grids, detect anomalies and prevent failures, on top of being useful for diverse research purposes. However, the use of power consumption data raises significant privacy concerns, as this data usually belongs to clients of a power company. As a solution, we propose a method to generate synthetic power consumption samples that faithfully imitate the originals, but are detached from the clients and their identities. Our method is based on Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs). Our contribution is twofold. First, we focus on the quality of the generated data, which is not a trivial task as no standard evaluation methods are available. Then, we study the privacy guarantees provided to members of the training set of our neural network. As a minimum requirement for privacy, we demand our neural network to be robust to membership inference attacks, as these provide a gateway for further attacks in addition to presenting a privacy threat on their own. We find that there is a compromise to be made between the privacy and the performance provided by the algorithm.

  Combining deep neural networks with structured logic rules is desirable to harness flexibility and reduce uninterpretability of the neural models. We propose a general framework capable of enhancing various types of neural networks (e.g., CNNs and RNNs) with declarative first-order logic rules. Specifically, we develop an iterative distillation method that transfers the structured information of logic rules into the weights of neural networks. We deploy the framework on a CNN for sentiment analysis, and an RNN for named entity recognition. With a few highly intuitive rules, we obtain substantial improvements and achieve state-of-the-art or comparable results to previous best-performing systems.

  In this paper, we study adaptive online convex optimization, and aim to design a universal algorithm that achieves optimal regret bounds for multiple common types of loss functions. Existing universal methods are limited in the sense that they are optimal for only a subclass of loss functions. To address this limitation, we propose a novel online method, namely Maler, which enjoys the optimal $O(\sqrt{T})$, $O(d\log T)$ and $O(\log T)$ regret bounds for general convex, exponentially concave, and strongly convex functions respectively. The essential idea is to run multiple types of learning algorithms with different learning rates in parallel, and utilize a meta algorithm to track the best one on the fly. Empirical results demonstrate the effectiveness of our method.

  Active learning (AL) selects the most beneficial unlabeled samples to label, and hence a better machine learning model can be trained from the same number of labeled samples. Most existing active learning for regression (ALR) approaches are supervised, which means the sampling process must use some label information, or an existing regression model. This paper considers completely unsupervised ALR, i.e., how to select the samples to label without knowing any true label information. We propose a novel unsupervised ALR approach, iterative representativeness-diversity maximization (iRDM), to optimally balance the representativeness and the diversity of the selected samples. Experiments on 12 datasets from various domains demonstrated its effectiveness. Our iRDM can be applied to both linear regression and kernel regression, and it even significantly outperforms supervised ALR when the number of labeled samples is small.

  Digital image watermarking is the process of embedding and extracting watermark covertly on a carrier image. Incorporating deep learning networks with image watermarking has attracted increasing attention during recent years. However, existing deep learning-based watermarking systems cannot achieve robustness, blindness, and automated embedding and extraction simultaneously. In this paper, a fully automated image watermarking system based on deep neural networks is proposed to generalize the image watermarking processes. An unsupervised deep learning structure and a novel loss computation are proposed to achieve high capacity and high robustness without any prior knowledge of possible attacks. Furthermore, a challenging application of watermark extraction from camera-captured images is provided to validate the practicality as well as the robustness of the proposed system. Experimental results show the superiority performance of the proposed system as comparing against several currently available techniques.

  Sleep apnea is a disorder that has serious consequences for the pediatric population. There has been recent concern that traditional diagnosis of the disorder using the apnea-hypopnea index may be ineffective in capturing its multi-faceted outcomes. In this work, we take a first step in addressing this issue by phenotyping patients using a clustering analysis of airflow time series. This is approached in three ways: using feature-based fuzzy clustering in the time and frequency domains, and using persistent homology to study the signal from a topological perspective. The fuzzy clusters are analyzed in a novel manner using a Dirichlet regression analysis, while the topological approach leverages Takens embedding theorem to study the periodicity properties of the signals.

  Non-Orthogonal Multiple Access (NOMA) has higher spectral efficiency than orthogonal multiple access (OMA) techniques. In uplink communication systems that the channel is not known at the receiver, pilot signals sent from each user in different time intervals have reduced the spectral efficiency of NOMA. In this study, in the uplink communication system, DL-deep learning based detectors which are known to respond to the pilot signals sent from the users at the base station have been researched. It is aimed to maintain the spectral efficiency of NOMA by sending a single pilot from users, thus reducing the time interval in the DL detectors.

  We have identified a methodological problem in the empirical evaluation of the string encryption detection capabilities of the AndrODet system described by Mirzaei et al. in the recent paper "AndrODet: An adaptive Android obfuscation detector". The accuracy of string encryption detection is evaluated using samples from the AMD and PraGuard malware datasets. However, the authors failed to account for the fact that many of the AMD samples are highly similar due to the fact that they come from the same malware family. This introduces a risk that a machine learning system trained on these samples could fail to learn a generalizable model for string encryption detection, and might instead learn to classify samples based on characteristics of each malware family. Our own evaluation strongly indicates that the reported high accuracy of AndrODet's string encryption detection is indeed due to this phenomenon. When we evaluated AndrODet, we found that when we ensured that samples from the same family never appeared in both training and testing data, the accuracy dropped to around 50%. Moreover, the PraGuard dataset is not suitable for evaluating a static string encryption detector such as AndrODet, since the particular obfuscation tool used to produce the dataset effectively makes it impossible to extract meaningful features of static strings in Android apps.

  This manuscript studies statistical properties of linear classifiers obtained through minimization of an unregularized convex risk over a finite sample. Although the results are explicitly finite-dimensional, inputs may be passed through feature maps; in this way, in addition to treating the consistency of logistic regression, this analysis also handles boosting over a finite weak learning class with, for instance, the exponential, logistic, and hinge losses. In this finite-dimensional setting, it is still possible to fit arbitrary decision boundaries: scaling the complexity of the weak learning class with the sample size leads to the optimal classification risk almost surely.

  Non-convex optimization problems often arise from probabilistic modeling, such as estimation of posterior distributions. Non-convexity makes the problems intractable, and poses various obstacles for us to design efficient algorithms. In this work, we attack non-convexity by first introducing the concept of \emph{probable convexity} for analyzing convexity of real functions in practice. We then use the new concept to analyze an inference problem in the \emph{Correlated Topic Model} (CTM) and related nonconjugate models. Contrary to the existing belief of intractability, we show that this inference problem is concave under certain conditions. One consequence of our analyses is a novel algorithm for learning CTM which is significantly more scalable and qualitative than existing methods. Finally, we highlight that stochastic gradient algorithms might be a practical choice to resolve efficiently non-convex problems. This finding might find beneficial in many contexts which are beyond probabilistic modeling.

  The unconditional generation of high fidelity images is a longstanding benchmark for testing the performance of image decoders. Autoregressive image models have been able to generate small images unconditionally, but the extension of these methods to large images where fidelity can be more readily assessed has remained an open problem. Among the major challenges are the capacity to encode the vast previous context and the sheer difficulty of learning a distribution that preserves both global semantic coherence and exactness of detail. To address the former challenge, we propose the Subscale Pixel Network (SPN), a conditional decoder architecture that generates an image as a sequence of sub-images of equal size. The SPN compactly captures image-wide spatial dependencies and requires a fraction of the memory and the computation required by other fully autoregressive models. To address the latter challenge, we propose to use Multidimensional Upscaling to grow an image in both size and depth via intermediate stages utilising distinct SPNs. We evaluate SPNs on the unconditional generation of CelebAHQ of size 256 and of ImageNet from size 32 to 256. We achieve state-of-the-art likelihood results in multiple settings, set up new benchmark results in previously unexplored settings and are able to generate very high fidelity large scale samples on the basis of both datasets.

  Hyperbolic space is a natural setting for mining and visualizing data with hierarchical structure. In order to compute a hyperbolic embedding from comparison or similarity information, one has to solve a hyperbolic distance geometry problem. In this paper, we propose a unified framework to compute hyperbolic embeddings from an arbitrary mix of noisy metric and non-metric data. Our algorithms are based on semidefinite programming and the notion of a hyperbolic distance matrix, in many ways parallel to its famous Euclidean counterpart. A central ingredient we put forward is a semidefinite characterization of the hyperbolic Gramian -- a matrix of Lorentzian inner products. This characterization allows us to formulate a semidefinite relaxation to efficiently compute hyperbolic embeddings in two stages: first, we complete and denoise the observed hyperbolic distance matrix; second, we propose a spectral factorization method to estimate the embedded points from the hyperbolic distance matrix. We show through numerical experiments how the flexibility to mix metric and non-metric constraints allows us to efficiently compute embeddings from arbitrary data.

  We describe an "interpretability illusion" that arises when analyzing the BERT model. Activations of individual neurons in the network may spuriously appear to encode a single, simple concept, when in fact they are encoding something far more complex. The same effect holds for linear combinations of activations. We trace the source of this illusion to geometric properties of BERT's embedding space as well as the fact that common text corpora represent only narrow slices of possible English sentences. We provide a taxonomy of model-learned concepts and discuss methodological implications for interpretability research, especially the importance of testing hypotheses on multiple data sets.

  The expected supremum of a Gaussian process indexed by the image of an index set under a function class is bounded in terms of separate properties of the index set and the function class. The bound is relevant to the estimation of nonlinear transformations or the analysis of learning algorithms whenever hypotheses are chosen from composite classes, as is the case for multi-layer models.

  The restricted Boltzmann machine (RBM) is a representative generative model based on the concept of statistical mechanics. In spite of the strong merit of interpretability, unavailability of backpropagation makes it less competitive than other generative models. Here we derive differentiable loss functions for both binary and multinary RBMs. Then we demonstrate their learnability and performance by generating colored face images.

  It is widely believed that the success of deep convolutional networks is based on progressively discarding uninformative variability about the input with respect to the problem at hand. This is supported empirically by the difficulty of recovering images from their hidden representations, in most commonly used network architectures. In this paper we show via a one-to-one mapping that this loss of information is not a necessary condition to learn representations that generalize well on complicated problems, such as ImageNet. Via a cascade of homeomorphic layers, we build the i-RevNet, a network that can be fully inverted up to the final projection onto the classes, i.e. no information is discarded. Building an invertible architecture is difficult, for one, because the local inversion is ill-conditioned, we overcome this by providing an explicit inverse. An analysis of i-RevNets learned representations suggests an alternative explanation for the success of deep networks by a progressive contraction and linear separation with depth. To shed light on the nature of the model learned by the i-RevNet we reconstruct linear interpolations between natural image representations.

  We study the problem of synthesizing programs that include machine learning components such as deep neural networks (DNNs). We focus on statistical properties, which are properties expected to hold with high probability -- e.g., that an image classification model correctly identifies people in images with high probability. We propose novel algorithms for sketching and synthesizing such programs by leveraging ideas from statistical learning theory to provide statistical soundness guarantees. We evaluate our approach on synthesizing list processing programs that include DNN components used to process image inputs, as well as case studies on image classification and on precision medicine. Our results demonstrate that our approach can be used to synthesize programs with probabilistic guarantees.

  Language model based pre-trained models such as BERT have provided significant gains across different NLP tasks. In this paper, we study different types of transformer based pre-trained models such as auto-regressive models (GPT-2), auto-encoder models (BERT), and seq2seq models (BART) for conditional data augmentation. We show that prepending the class labels to text sequences provides a simple yet effective way to condition the pre-trained models for data augmentation. Additionally, on three classification benchmarks, pre-trained Seq2Seq model outperforms other data augmentation methods in a low-resource setting. Further, we explore how different pre-trained model based data augmentation differs in-terms of data diversity, and how well such methods preserve the class-label information.

  Federated Recommendation (FR) has received considerable popularity and attention in the past few years. In FR, for each user, its feature vector and interaction data are kept locally on its own client thus are private to others. Without the access to above information, most existing poisoning attacks against recommender systems or federated learning lose validity. Benifiting from this characteristic, FR is commonly considered fairly secured. However, we argue that there is still possible and necessary security improvement could be made in FR. To prove our opinion, in this paper we present FedRecAttack, a model poisoning attack to FR aiming to raise the exposure ratio of target items. In most recommendation scenarios, apart from private user-item interactions (e.g., clicks, watches and purchases), some interactions are public (e.g., likes, follows and comments). Motivated by this point, in FedRecAttack we make use of the public interactions to approximate users' feature vectors, thereby attacker can generate poisoned gradients accordingly and control malicious users to upload the poisoned gradients in a well-designed way. To evaluate the effectiveness and side effects of FedRecAttack, we conduct extensive experiments on three real-world datasets of different sizes from two completely different scenarios. Experimental results demonstrate that our proposed FedRecAttack achieves the state-of-the-art effectiveness while its side effects are negligible. Moreover, even with small proportion (3%) of malicious users and small proportion (1%) of public interactions, FedRecAttack remains highly effective, which reveals that FR is more vulnerable to attack than people commonly considered.

  Investigation of the degree of personalization in federated learning algorithms has shown that only maximizing the performance of the global model will confine the capacity of the local models to personalize. In this paper, we advocate an adaptive personalized federated learning (APFL) algorithm, where each client will train their local models while contributing to the global model. We derive the generalization bound of mixture of local and global models, and find the optimal mixing parameter. We also propose a communication-efficient optimization method to collaboratively learn the personalized models and analyze its convergence in both smooth strongly convex and nonconvex settings. The extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of our personalization schema, as well as the correctness of established generalization theories.

  In this article, we prove approximation theorems in classes of deep and shallow neural networks with analytic activation functions by elementary arguments. We prove for both real and complex networks with non-polynomial activation that the closure of the class of neural networks coincides with the closure of the space of polynomials. The closure can further be characterized by the Stone-Weierstrass theorem (in the real case) and Mergelyan's theorem (in the complex case). In the real case, we further prove approximation results for networks with higher-dimensional harmonic activation and orthogonally projected linear maps. We further show that fully connected and residual networks of large depth with polynomial activation functions can approximate any polynomial under certain width requirements. All proofs are entirely elementary.

  In this demonstration, we present an efficient BERT-based multi-task (MT) framework that is particularly suitable for iterative and incremental development of the tasks. The proposed framework is based on the idea of partial fine-tuning, i.e. only fine-tune some top layers of BERT while keep the other layers frozen. For each task, we train independently a single-task (ST) model using partial fine-tuning. Then we compress the task-specific layers in each ST model using knowledge distillation. Those compressed ST models are finally merged into one MT model so that the frozen layers of the former are shared across the tasks. We exemplify our approach on eight GLUE tasks, demonstrating that it is able to achieve both strong performance and efficiency. We have implemented our method in the utterance understanding system of XiaoAI, a commercial AI assistant developed by Xiaomi. We estimate that our model reduces the overall serving cost by 86%.

  Maximising the detection of intrusions is a fundamental and often critical aim of perimeter surveillance. Commonly, this requires a decision-maker to optimally allocate multiple searchers to segments of the perimeter. We consider a scenario where the decision-maker may sequentially update the searchers' allocation, learning from the observed data to improve decisions over time. In this work we propose a formal model and solution methods for this sequential perimeter surveillance problem. Our model is a combinatorial multi-armed bandit (CMAB) with Poisson rewards and a novel filtered feedback mechanism - arising from the failure to detect certain intrusions. Our solution method is an upper confidence bound approach and we derive upper and lower bounds on its expected performance. We prove that the gap between these bounds is of constant order, and demonstrate empirically that our approach is more reliable in simulated problems than competing algorithms.

  We present a representation for describing transition models in complex uncertain domains using relational rules. For any action, a rule selects a set of relevant objects and computes a distribution over properties of just those objects in the resulting state given their properties in the previous state. An iterative greedy algorithm is used to construct a set of deictic references that determine which objects are relevant in any given state. Feed-forward neural networks are used to learn the transition distribution on the relevant objects' properties. This strategy is demonstrated to be both more versatile and more sample efficient than learning a monolithic transition model in a simulated domain in which a robot pushes stacks of objects on a cluttered table.

  This work improves the quality of automated machine learning (AutoML) systems by using dataset and function descriptions while significantly decreasing computation time from minutes to milliseconds by using a zero-shot approach. Given a new dataset and a well-defined machine learning task, humans begin by reading a description of the dataset and documentation for the algorithms to be used. This work is the first to use these textual descriptions, which we call privileged information, for AutoML. We use a pre-trained Transformer model to process the privileged text and demonstrate that using this information improves AutoML performance. Thus, our approach leverages the progress of unsupervised representation learning in natural language processing to provide a significant boost to AutoML. We demonstrate that using only textual descriptions of the data and functions achieves reasonable classification performance, and adding textual descriptions to data meta-features improves classification across tabular datasets. To achieve zero-shot AutoML we train a graph neural network with these description embeddings and the data meta-features. Each node represents a training dataset, which we use to predict the best machine learning pipeline for a new test dataset in a zero-shot fashion. Our zero-shot approach rapidly predicts a high-quality pipeline for a supervised learning task and dataset. In contrast, most AutoML systems require tens or hundreds of pipeline evaluations. We show that zero-shot AutoML reduces running and prediction times from minutes to milliseconds, consistently across datasets. By speeding up AutoML by orders of magnitude this work demonstrates real-time AutoML.

  In order to find Nash-equilibria for two-player zero-sum games where each player plays combinatorial objects like spanning trees, matchings etc, we consider two online learning algorithms: the online mirror descent (OMD) algorithm and the multiplicative weights update (MWU) algorithm. The OMD algorithm requires the computation of a certain Bregman projection, that has closed form solutions for simple convex sets like the Euclidean ball or the simplex. However, for general polyhedra one often needs to exploit the general machinery of convex optimization. We give a novel primal-style algorithm for computing Bregman projections on the base polytopes of polymatroids. Next, in the case of the MWU algorithm, although it scales logarithmically in the number of pure strategies or experts $N$ in terms of regret, the algorithm takes time polynomial in $N$; this especially becomes a problem when learning combinatorial objects. We give a general recipe to simulate the multiplicative weights update algorithm in time polynomial in their natural dimension. This is useful whenever there exists a polynomial time generalized counting oracle (even if approximate) over these objects. Finally, using the combinatorial structure of symmetric Nash-equilibria (SNE) when both players play bases of matroids, we show that these can be found with a single projection or convex minimization (without using online learning).

  Partial differential equations (PDEs) fitting scientific data can represent physical laws with explainable mechanisms for various mathematically-oriented subjects. Most natural dynamics are expressed by PDEs with varying coefficients (PDEs-VC), which highlights the importance of PDE discovery. Previous algorithms can discover some simple instances of PDEs-VC but fail in the discovery of PDEs with coefficients of higher complexity, as a result of coefficient estimation inaccuracy. In this paper, we propose KO-PDE, a kernel optimized regression method that incorporates the kernel density estimation of adjacent coefficients to reduce the coefficient estimation error. KO-PDE can discover PDEs-VC on which previous baselines fail and is more robust against inevitable noise in data. In experiments, the PDEs-VC of seven challenging spatiotemporal scientific datasets in fluid dynamics are all discovered by KO-PDE, while the three baselines render false results in most cases. With state-of-the-art performance, KO-PDE sheds light on the automatic description of natural phenomenons using discovered PDEs in the real world.

  Imagine a robot is shown new concepts visually together with spoken tags, e.g. "milk", "eggs", "butter". After seeing one paired audio-visual example per class, it is shown a new set of unseen instances of these objects, and asked to pick the "milk". Without receiving any hard labels, could it learn to match the new continuous speech input to the correct visual instance? Although unimodal one-shot learning has been studied, where one labelled example in a single modality is given per class, this example motivates multimodal one-shot learning. Our main contribution is to formally define this task, and to propose several baseline and advanced models. We use a dataset of paired spoken and visual digits to specifically investigate recent advances in Siamese convolutional neural networks. Our best Siamese model achieves twice the accuracy of a nearest neighbour model using pixel-distance over images and dynamic time warping over speech in 11-way cross-modal matching.

  A key challenge for gradient based optimization methods in model-free reinforcement learning is to develop an approach that is sample efficient and has low variance. In this work, we apply Kronecker-factored curvature estimation technique (KFAC) to a recently proposed gradient estimator for control variate optimization, RELAX, to increase the sample efficiency of using this gradient estimation method in reinforcement learning. The performance of the proposed method is demonstrated on a synthetic problem and a set of three discrete control task Atari games.

  The computational demands of computer vision tasks based on state-of-the-art Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) image classification far exceed the energy budgets of mobile devices. This paper proposes FixyNN, which consists of a fixed-weight feature extractor that generates ubiquitous CNN features, and a conventional programmable CNN accelerator which processes a dataset-specific CNN. Image classification models for FixyNN are trained end-to-end via transfer learning, with the common feature extractor representing the transfered part, and the programmable part being learnt on the target dataset. Experimental results demonstrate FixyNN hardware can achieve very high energy efficiencies up to 26.6 TOPS/W ($4.81 \times$ better than iso-area programmable accelerator). Over a suite of six datasets we trained models via transfer learning with an accuracy loss of $<1\%$ resulting in up to 11.2 TOPS/W - nearly $2 \times$ more efficient than a conventional programmable CNN accelerator of the same area.

  Due to massive amounts of data distributed across multiple locations, distributed machine learning has attracted a lot of research interests. Alternating Direction Method of Multipliers (ADMM) is a powerful method of designing distributed machine learning algorithm, whereby each agent computes over local datasets and exchanges computation results with its neighbor agents in an iterative procedure. There exists significant privacy leakage during this iterative process if the local data is sensitive. In this paper, we propose a differentially private ADMM algorithm (P-ADMM) to provide dynamic zero-concentrated differential privacy (dynamic zCDP), by inserting Gaussian noise with linearly decaying variance. We prove that P-ADMM has the same convergence rate compared to the non-private counterpart, i.e., $\mathcal{O}(1/K)$ with $K$ being the number of iterations and linear convergence for general convex and strongly convex problems while providing differentially private guarantee. Moreover, through our experiments performed on real-world datasets, we empirically show that P-ADMM has the best-known performance among the existing differentially private ADMM based algorithms.

  In remote sensing, it is often challenging to acquire or collect a large dataset that is accurately labeled. This difficulty is usually due to several issues, including but not limited to the study site's spatial area and accessibility, errors in the global positioning system (GPS), and mixed pixels caused by an image's spatial resolution. We propose an approach, with two variations, that estimates multiple target signatures from training samples with imprecise labels: Multi-Target Multiple Instance Adaptive Cosine Estimator (Multi-Target MI-ACE) and Multi-Target Multiple Instance Spectral Match Filter (Multi-Target MI-SMF). The proposed methods address the problems above by directly considering the multiple-instance, imprecisely labeled dataset. They learn a dictionary of target signatures that optimizes detection against a background using the Adaptive Cosine Estimator (ACE) and Spectral Match Filter (SMF). Experiments were conducted to test the proposed algorithms using a simulated hyperspectral dataset, the MUUFL Gulfport hyperspectral dataset collected over the University of Southern Mississippi-Gulfpark Campus, and the AVIRIS hyperspectral dataset collected over Santa Barbara County, California. Both simulated and real hyperspectral target detection experiments show the proposed algorithms are effective at learning target signatures and performing target detection.

  Accelerated magnetic resonance (MR) scan acquisition with compressed sensing (CS) and parallel imaging is a powerful method to reduce MR imaging scan time. However, many reconstruction algorithms have high computational costs. To address this, we investigate deep residual learning networks to remove aliasing artifacts from artifact corrupted images. The proposed deep residual learning networks are composed of magnitude and phase networks that are separately trained. If both phase and magnitude information are available, the proposed algorithm can work as an iterative k-space interpolation algorithm using framelet representation. When only magnitude data is available, the proposed approach works as an image domain post-processing algorithm. Even with strong coherent aliasing artifacts, the proposed network successfully learned and removed the aliasing artifacts, whereas current parallel and CS reconstruction methods were unable to remove these artifacts. Comparisons using single and multiple coil show that the proposed residual network provides good reconstruction results with orders of magnitude faster computational time than existing compressed sensing methods. The proposed deep learning framework may have a great potential for accelerated MR reconstruction by generating accurate results immediately.

  In many real-life tasks of application of supervised learning approaches, all the training data are not available at the same time. The examples are lifelong image classification or recognition of environmental objects during interaction of instrumented persons with their environment, enrichment of an online-database with more images. It is necessary to pre-train the model at a "training recording phase" and then adjust it to the new coming data. This is the task of incremental/continual learning approaches. Amongst different problems to be solved by these approaches such as introduction of new categories in the model, refining existing categories to sub-categories and extending trained classifiers over them, ... we focus on the problem of adjusting pre-trained model with new additional training data for existing categories. We propose a fast continual learning layer at the end of the neuronal network. Obtained results are illustrated on the opensource CIFAR benchmark dataset. The proposed scheme yields similar performances as retraining but with drastically lower computational cost.

  Explanation is important for text classification tasks. One prevalent type of explanation is rationales, which are text snippets of input text that suffice to yield the prediction and are meaningful to humans. A lot of research on rationalization has been based on the selective rationalization framework, which has recently been shown to be problematic due to the interlocking dynamics. In this paper, we show that we address the interlocking problem in the multi-aspect setting, where we aim to generate multiple rationales for multiple outputs. More specifically, we propose a multi-stage training method incorporating an additional self-supervised contrastive loss that helps to generate more semantically diverse rationales. Empirical results on the beer review dataset show that our method improves significantly the rationalization performance.

  Generating images from a single sample, as a newly developing branch of image synthesis, has attracted extensive attention. In this paper, we formulate this problem as sampling from the conditional distribution of a single image, and propose a hierarchical framework that simplifies the learning of the intricate conditional distributions through the successive learning of the distributions about structure, semantics and texture, making the process of learning and generation comprehensible. On this basis, we design ExSinGAN composed of three cascaded GANs for learning an explainable generative model from a given image, where the cascaded GANs model the distributions about structure, semantics and texture successively. ExSinGAN is learned not only from the internal patches of the given image as the previous works did, but also from the external prior obtained by the GAN inversion technique. Benefiting from the appropriate combination of internal and external information, ExSinGAN has a more powerful capability of generation and competitive generalization ability for the image manipulation tasks compared with prior works.

  Model interpretation, or explanation of a machine learning classifier, aims to extract generalizable knowledge from a trained classifier into a human-understandable format, for various purposes such as model assessment, debugging and trust. From a computaional viewpoint, it is formulated as approximating the target classifier using a simpler interpretable model, such as rule models like a decision set/list/tree. Often, this approximation is handled as standard supervised learning and the only difference is that the labels are provided by the target classifier instead of ground truth. This paradigm is particularly popular because there exists a variety of well-studied supervised algorithms for learning an interpretable classifier. However, we argue that this paradigm is suboptimal for it does not utilize the unique property of the model interpretation problem, that is, the ability to generate synthetic instances and query the target classifier for their labels. We call this the active-query property, suggesting that we should consider model interpretation from an active learning perspective. Following this insight, we argue that the active-query property should be employed when designing a model interpretation algorithm, and that the generation of synthetic instances should be integrated seamlessly with the algorithm that learns the model interpretation. In this paper, we demonstrate that by doing so, it is possible to achieve more faithful interpretation with simpler model complexity. As a technical contribution, we present an active algorithm Active Decision Set Induction (ADS) to learn a decision set, a set of if-else rules, for model interpretation. ADS performs a local search over the space of all decision sets. In every iteration, ADS computes confidence intervals for the value of the objective function of all local actions and utilizes active-query to determine the best one.

  We propose \textit{Meta-Regularization}, a novel approach for the adaptive choice of the learning rate in first-order gradient descent methods. Our approach modifies the objective function by adding a regularization term on the learning rate, and casts the joint updating process of parameters and learning rates into a maxmin problem. Given any regularization term, our approach facilitates the generation of practical algorithms. When \textit{Meta-Regularization} takes the $\varphi$-divergence as a regularizer, the resulting algorithms exhibit comparable theoretical convergence performance with other first-order gradient-based algorithms. Furthermore, we theoretically prove that some well-designed regularizers can improve the convergence performance under the strong-convexity condition of the objective function. Numerical experiments on benchmark problems demonstrate the effectiveness of algorithms derived from some common $\varphi$-divergence in full batch as well as online learning settings.

  Neural networks (NNs) have demonstrated their potential in a wide range of applications such as image recognition, decision making or recommendation systems. However, standard NNs are unable to capture their model uncertainty which is crucial for many safety-critical applications including healthcare and autonomous vehicles. In comparison, Bayesian neural networks (BNNs) are able to express uncertainty in their prediction via a mathematical grounding. Nevertheless, BNNs have not been as widely used in industrial practice, mainly because of their expensive computational cost and limited hardware performance. This work proposes a novel FPGA-based hardware architecture to accelerate BNNs inferred through Monte Carlo Dropout. Compared with other state-of-the-art BNN accelerators, the proposed accelerator can achieve up to 4 times higher energy efficiency and 9 times better compute efficiency. Considering partial Bayesian inference, an automatic framework is proposed, which explores the trade-off between hardware and algorithmic performance. Extensive experiments are conducted to demonstrate that our proposed framework can effectively find the optimal points in the design space.

  Being able to learn dense semantic representations of images without supervision is an important problem in computer vision. However, despite its significance, this problem remains rather unexplored, with a few exceptions that considered unsupervised semantic segmentation on small-scale datasets with a narrow visual domain. In this paper, we make a first attempt to tackle the problem on datasets that have been traditionally utilized for the supervised case. To achieve this, we introduce a two-step framework that adopts a predetermined mid-level prior in a contrastive optimization objective to learn pixel embeddings. This marks a large deviation from existing works that relied on proxy tasks or end-to-end clustering. Additionally, we argue about the importance of having a prior that contains information about objects, or their parts, and discuss several possibilities to obtain such a prior in an unsupervised manner.   Experimental evaluation shows that our method comes with key advantages over existing works. First, the learned pixel embeddings can be directly clustered in semantic groups using K-Means on PASCAL. Under the fully unsupervised setting, there is no precedent in solving the semantic segmentation task on such a challenging benchmark. Second, our representations can improve over strong baselines when transferred to new datasets, e.g. COCO and DAVIS. The code is available.

  Data collection and labeling is one of the main challenges in employing machine learning algorithms in a variety of real-world applications with limited data. While active learning methods attempt to tackle this issue by labeling only the data samples that give high information, they generally suffer from large computational costs and are impractical in settings where data can be collected in parallel. Batch active learning methods attempt to overcome this computational burden by querying batches of samples at a time. To avoid redundancy between samples, previous works rely on some ad hoc combination of sample quality and diversity. In this paper, we present a new principled batch active learning method using Determinantal Point Processes, a repulsive point process that enables generating diverse batches of samples. We develop tractable algorithms to approximate the mode of a DPP distribution, and provide theoretical guarantees on the degree of approximation. We further demonstrate that an iterative greedy method for DPP maximization, which has lower computational costs but worse theoretical guarantees, still gives competitive results for batch active learning. Our experiments show the value of our methods on several datasets against state-of-the-art baselines.

  Learning with limited data is a key challenge for visual recognition. Many few-shot learning methods address this challenge by learning an instance embedding function from seen classes and apply the function to instances from unseen classes with limited labels. This style of transfer learning is task-agnostic: the embedding function is not learned optimally discriminative with respect to the unseen classes, where discerning among them leads to the target task. In this paper, we propose a novel approach to adapt the instance embeddings to the target classification task with a set-to-set function, yielding embeddings that are task-specific and are discriminative. We empirically investigated various instantiations of such set-to-set functions and observed the Transformer is most effective -- as it naturally satisfies key properties of our desired model. We denote this model as FEAT (few-shot embedding adaptation w/ Transformer) and validate it on both the standard few-shot classification benchmark and four extended few-shot learning settings with essential use cases, i.e., cross-domain, transductive, generalized few-shot learning, and low-shot learning. It archived consistent improvements over baseline models as well as previous methods and established the new state-of-the-art results on two benchmarks.

  In several studies, hybrid neural networks have proven to be more robust against noisy input data compared to plain data driven neural networks. We consider the task of estimating parameters of a mechanical vehicle model based on acceleration profiles. We introduce a convolutional neural network architecture that is capable to predict the parameters for a family of vehicle models that differ in the unknown parameters. We introduce a convolutional neural network architecture that given sequential data predicts the parameters of the underlying data's dynamics. This network is trained with two objective functions. The first one constitutes a more naive approach that assumes that the true parameters are known. The second objective incorporates the knowledge of the underlying dynamics and is therefore considered as hybrid approach. We show that in terms of robustness, the latter outperforms the first objective on noisy input data.

  Given a measurement graph $G= (V,E)$ and an unknown signal $r \in \mathbb{R}^n$, we investigate algorithms for recovering $r$ from pairwise measurements of the form $r_i - r_j$; $\{i,j\} \in E$. This problem arises in a variety of applications, such as ranking teams in sports data and time synchronization of distributed networks. Framed in the context of ranking, the task is to recover the ranking of $n$ teams (induced by $r$) given a small subset of noisy pairwise rank offsets. We propose a simple SVD-based algorithmic pipeline for both the problem of time synchronization and ranking. We provide a detailed theoretical analysis in terms of robustness against both sampling sparsity and noise perturbations with outliers, using results from matrix perturbation and random matrix theory. Our theoretical findings are complemented by a detailed set of numerical experiments on both synthetic and real data, showcasing the competitiveness of our proposed algorithms with other state-of-the-art methods.

  Federated learning has evolved to improve a single global model under data heterogeneity (as a curse) or to develop multiple personalized models using data heterogeneity (as a blessing). However, little research has considered both directions simultaneously. In this paper, we first investigate the relationship between them by analyzing Federated Averaging at the client level and determine that a better federated global model performance does not constantly improve personalization. To elucidate the cause of this personalization performance degradation problem, we decompose the entire network into the body (extractor), which is related to universality, and the head (classifier), which is related to personalization. We then point out that this problem stems from training the head. Based on this observation, we propose a novel federated learning algorithm, coined FedBABU, which only updates the body of the model during federated training (i.e., the head is randomly initialized and never updated), and the head is fine-tuned for personalization during the evaluation process. Extensive experiments show consistent performance improvements and an efficient personalization of FedBABU. The code is available at https://github.com/jhoon-oh/FedBABU.

  For recovering 3D object poses from 2D images, a prevalent method is to pre-train an over-complete dictionary $\mathcal D=\{B_i\}_i^D$ of 3D basis poses. During testing, the detected 2D pose $Y$ is matched to dictionary by $Y \approx \sum_i M_i B_i$ where $\{M_i\}_i^D=\{c_i \Pi R_i\}$, by estimating the rotation $R_i$, projection $\Pi$ and sparse combination coefficients $c \in \mathbb R_{+}^D$. In this paper, we propose non-convex regularization $H(c)$ to learn coefficients $c$, including novel leaky capped $\ell_1$-norm regularization (LCNR), \begin{align*} H(c)=\alpha \sum_{i } \min(|c_i|,\tau)+ \beta \sum_{i } \max(| c_i|,\tau), \end{align*} where $0\leq \beta \leq \alpha$ and $0<\tau$ is a certain threshold, so the invalid components smaller than $\tau$ are composed with larger regularization and other valid components with smaller regularization. We propose a multi-stage optimizer with convex relaxation and ADMM. We prove that the estimation error $\mathcal L(l)$ decays w.r.t. the stages $l$, \begin{align*} Pr\left(\mathcal L(l) < \rho^{l-1} \mathcal L(0) + \delta \right) \geq 1- \epsilon, \end{align*} where $0< \rho <1, 0<\delta, 0<\epsilon \ll 1$. Experiments on large 3D human datasets like H36M are conducted to support our improvement upon previous approaches. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first theoretical analysis in this line of research, to understand how the recovery error is affected by fundamental factors, e.g. dictionary size, observation noises, optimization times. We characterize the trade-off between speed and accuracy towards real-time inference in applications.

We show that any matrix product state (MPS) can be exactly represented by a recurrent neural network (RNN) with a linear memory update. We generalize this RNN architecture to 2D lattices using a multilinear memory update. It supports perfect sampling and wave function evaluation in polynomial time, and can represent an area law of entanglement entropy. Numerical evidence shows that it can encode the wave function using a bond dimension lower by orders of magnitude when compared to MPS, with an accuracy that can be systematically improved by increasing the bond dimension.

  We consider a proximal operator given by a quadratic function subject to bound constraints and give an optimization algorithm using the alternating direction method of multipliers (ADMM). The algorithm is particularly efficient to solve a collection of proximal operators that share the same quadratic form, or if the quadratic program is the relaxation of a binary quadratic problem.

  Heterogeneous information networks (HINs) with rich semantics are ubiquitous in real-world applications. For a given HIN, many reasonable clustering results with distinct semantic meaning can simultaneously exist. User-guided clustering is hence of great practical value for HINs where users provide labels to a small portion of nodes. To cater to a broad spectrum of user guidance evidenced by different expected clustering results, carefully exploiting the signals residing in the data is potentially useful. Meanwhile, as one type of complex networks, HINs often encapsulate higher-order interactions that reflect the interlocked nature among nodes and edges. Network motifs, sometimes referred to as meta-graphs, have been used as tools to capture such higher-order interactions and reveal the many different semantics. We therefore approach the problem of user-guided clustering in HINs with network motifs. In this process, we identify the utility and importance of directly modeling higher-order interactions without collapsing them to pairwise interactions. To achieve this, we comprehensively transcribe the higher-order interaction signals to a series of tensors via motifs and propose the MoCHIN model based on joint non-negative tensor factorization. This approach applies to arbitrarily many, arbitrary forms of HIN motifs. An inference algorithm with speed-up methods is also proposed to tackle the challenge that tensor size grows exponentially as the number of nodes in a motif increases. We validate the effectiveness of the proposed method on two real-world datasets and three tasks, and MoCHIN outperforms all baselines in three evaluation tasks under three different metrics. Additional experiments demonstrated the utility of motifs and the benefit of directly modeling higher-order information especially when user guidance is limited.

  In this work, we propose Behavior-Guided Actor-Critic (BAC), an off-policy actor-critic deep RL algorithm. BAC mathematically formulates the behavior of the policy through autoencoders by providing an accurate estimation of how frequently each state-action pair was visited while taking into consideration state dynamics that play a crucial role in determining the trajectories produced by the policy. The agent is encouraged to change its behavior consistently towards less-visited state-action pairs while attaining good performance by maximizing the expected discounted sum of rewards, resulting in an efficient exploration of the environment and good exploitation of all high reward regions. One prominent aspect of our approach is that it is applicable to both stochastic and deterministic actors in contrast to maximum entropy deep reinforcement learning algorithms. Results show considerably better performances of BAC when compared to several cutting-edge learning algorithms.

  Over the recent years, Federated machine learning continues to gain interest and momentum where there is a need to draw insights from data while preserving the data provider's privacy. However, one among other existing challenges in the adoption of federated learning has been the lack of fair, transparent and universally agreed incentivization schemes for rewarding the federated learning contributors. Smart contracts on a blockchain network provide transparent, immutable and independently verifiable proofs by all participants of the network. We leverage this open and transparent nature of smart contracts on a blockchain to define incentivization rules for the contributors, which is based on a novel scalar quantity - federated contribution. Such a smart contract based reward-driven model has the potential to revolutionize the federated learning adoption in enterprises. Our contribution is two-fold: first is to show how smart contract based blockchain can be a very natural communication channel for federated learning. Second, leveraging this infrastructure, we can show how an intuitive measure of each agents' contribution can be built and integrated with the life cycle of the training and reward process.

  Hierarchical clustering is a fundamental task often used to discover meaningful structures in data, such as phylogenetic trees, taxonomies of concepts, subtypes of cancer, and cascades of particle decays in particle physics. Typically approximate algorithms are used for inference due to the combinatorial number of possible hierarchical clusterings. In contrast to existing methods, we present novel dynamic-programming algorithms for \emph{exact} inference in hierarchical clustering based on a novel trellis data structure, and we prove that we can exactly compute the partition function, maximum likelihood hierarchy, and marginal probabilities of sub-hierarchies and clusters. Our algorithms scale in time and space proportional to the powerset of $N$ elements which is super-exponentially more efficient than explicitly considering each of the (2N-3)!! possible hierarchies. Also, for larger datasets where our exact algorithms become infeasible, we introduce an approximate algorithm based on a sparse trellis that compares well to other benchmarks. Exact methods are relevant to data analyses in particle physics and for finding correlations among gene expression in cancer genomics, and we give examples in both areas, where our algorithms outperform greedy and beam search baselines. In addition, we consider Dasgupta's cost with synthetic data.

  Support vector machines (SVMs) have been recognized as a potential tool for supervised classification analyses in different domains of research. In essence, SVM is a binary classifier. Therefore, in case of a multiclass problem, the problem is divided into a series of binary problems which are solved by binary classifiers, and finally the classification results are combined following either the one-against-one or one-against-all strategies. In this paper, an attempt has been made to classify lithology using a multiclass SVM based framework using well logs as predictor variables. Here, the lithology is classified into four classes such as sand, shaly sand, sandy shale and shale based on the relative values of sand and shale fractions as suggested by an expert geologist. The available dataset consisting well logs (gamma ray, neutron porosity, density, and P-sonic) and class information from four closely spaced wells from an onshore hydrocarbon field is divided into training and testing sets. We have used one-against-all strategy to combine the results of multiple binary classifiers. The reported results established the superiority of multiclass SVM compared to other classifiers in terms of classification accuracy. The selection of kernel function and associated parameters has also been investigated here. It can be envisaged from the results achieved in this study that the proposed framework based on multiclass SVM can further be used to solve classification problems. In future research endeavor, seismic attributes can be introduced in the framework to classify the lithology throughout a study area from seismic inputs.

  We study the power of learning via mini-batch stochastic gradient descent (SGD) on the population loss, and batch Gradient Descent (GD) on the empirical loss, of a differentiable model or neural network, and ask what learning problems can be learnt using these paradigms. We show that SGD and GD can always simulate learning with statistical queries (SQ), but their ability to go beyond that depends on the precision $\rho$ of the gradient calculations relative to the minibatch size $b$ (for SGD) and sample size $m$ (for GD). With fine enough precision relative to minibatch size, namely when $b \rho$ is small enough, SGD can go beyond SQ learning and simulate any sample-based learning algorithm and thus its learning power is equivalent to that of PAC learning; this extends prior work that achieved this result for $b=1$. Similarly, with fine enough precision relative to the sample size $m$, GD can also simulate any sample-based learning algorithm based on $m$ samples. In particular, with polynomially many bits of precision (i.e. when $\rho$ is exponentially small), SGD and GD can both simulate PAC learning regardless of the mini-batch size. On the other hand, when $b \rho^2$ is large enough, the power of SGD is equivalent to that of SQ learning.

  The item cold-start problem seriously limits the recommendation performance of Collaborative Filtering (CF) methods when new items have either none or very little interactions. To solve this issue, many modern Internet applications propose to predict a new item's interaction from the possessing contents. However, it is difficult to design and learn a map between the item's interaction history and the corresponding contents. In this paper, we apply the Wasserstein distance to address the item cold-start problem. Given item content information, we can calculate the similarity between the interacted items and cold-start ones, so that a user's preference on cold-start items can be inferred by minimizing the Wasserstein distance between the distributions over these two types of items. We further adopt the idea of CF and propose Wasserstein CF (WCF) to improve the recommendation performance on cold-start items. Experimental results demonstrate the superiority of WCF over state-of-the-art approaches.

  Family history is a major risk factor for many types of cancer. Mendelian risk prediction models translate family histories into cancer risk predictions based on knowledge of cancer susceptibility genes. These models are widely used in clinical practice to help identify high-risk individuals. Mendelian models leverage the entire family history, but they rely on many assumptions about cancer susceptibility genes that are either unrealistic or challenging to validate due to low mutation prevalence. Training more flexible models, such as neural networks, on large databases of pedigrees can potentially lead to accuracy gains. In this paper, we develop a framework to apply neural networks to family history data and investigate their ability to learn inherited susceptibility to cancer. While there is an extensive literature on neural networks and their state-of-the-art performance in many tasks, there is little work applying them to family history data. We propose adaptations of fully-connected neural networks and convolutional neural networks to pedigrees. In data simulated under Mendelian inheritance, we demonstrate that our proposed neural network models are able to achieve nearly optimal prediction performance. Moreover, when the observed family history includes misreported cancer diagnoses, neural networks are able to outperform the Mendelian BRCAPRO model embedding the correct inheritance laws. Using a large dataset of over 200,000 family histories, the Risk Service cohort, we train prediction models for future risk of breast cancer. We validate the models using data from the Cancer Genetics Network.

  The human driver is no longer the only one concerned with the complexity of the driving scenarios. Autonomous vehicles (AV) are similarly becoming involved in the process. Nowadays, the development of AVs in urban places raises essential safety concerns for vulnerable road users (VRUs) such as pedestrians. Therefore, to make the roads safer, it is critical to classify and predict the pedestrians' future behavior. In this paper, we present a framework based on multiple variations of the Transformer models able to infer predict the pedestrian street-crossing decision-making based on the dynamics of its initiated trajectory. We showed that using solely bounding boxes as input features can outperform the previous state-of-the-art results by reaching a prediction accuracy of 91\% and an F1-score of 0.83 on the PIE dataset. In addition, we introduced a large-size simulated dataset (CP2A) using CARLA for action prediction. Our model has similarly reached high accuracy (91\%) and F1-score (0.91) on this dataset. Interestingly, we showed that pre-training our Transformer model on the CP2A dataset and then fine-tuning it on the PIE dataset is beneficial for the action prediction task. Finally, our model's results are successfully supported by the "human attention to bounding boxes" experiment which we created to test humans ability for pedestrian action prediction without the need for environmental context. The code for the dataset and the models is available at: https://github.com/linaashaji/Action_Anticipation

  Data processing is an important step in various natural language processing tasks. As the commonly used datasets in named entity recognition contain only a limited number of samples, it is important to obtain additional labeled data in an efficient and reliable manner. A common practice is to utilize large monolingual unlabeled corpora. Another popular technique is to create synthetic data from the original labeled data (data augmentation). In this work, we investigate the impact of these two methods on the performance of three different named entity recognition tasks.

  Distributed learning provides an attractive framework for scaling the learning task by sharing the computational load over multiple nodes in a network. Here, we investigate the performance of distributed learning for large-scale linear regression where the model parameters, i.e., the unknowns, are distributed over the network. We adopt a statistical learning approach. In contrast to works that focus on the performance on the training data, we focus on the generalization error, i.e., the performance on unseen data. We provide high-probability bounds on the generalization error for both isotropic and correlated Gaussian data as well as sub-gaussian data. These results reveal the dependence of the generalization performance on the partitioning of the model over the network. In particular, our results show that the generalization error of the distributed solution can be substantially higher than that of the centralized solution even when the error on the training data is at the same level for both the centralized and distributed approaches. Our numerical results illustrate the performance with both real-world image data as well as synthetic data.

  In this paper, we present GossipGraD - a gossip communication protocol based Stochastic Gradient Descent (SGD) algorithm for scaling Deep Learning (DL) algorithms on large-scale systems. The salient features of GossipGraD are: 1) reduction in overall communication complexity from {\Theta}(log(p)) for p compute nodes in well-studied SGD to O(1), 2) model diffusion such that compute nodes exchange their updates (gradients) indirectly after every log(p) steps, 3) rotation of communication partners for facilitating direct diffusion of gradients, 4) asynchronous distributed shuffle of samples during the feedforward phase in SGD to prevent over-fitting, 5) asynchronous communication of gradients for further reducing the communication cost of SGD and GossipGraD. We implement GossipGraD for GPU and CPU clusters and use NVIDIA GPUs (Pascal P100) connected with InfiniBand, and Intel Knights Landing (KNL) connected with Aries network. We evaluate GossipGraD using well-studied dataset ImageNet-1K (~250GB), and widely studied neural network topologies such as GoogLeNet and ResNet50 (current winner of ImageNet Large Scale Visualization Research Challenge (ILSVRC)). Our performance evaluation using both KNL and Pascal GPUs indicates that GossipGraD can achieve perfect efficiency for these datasets and their associated neural network topologies. Specifically, for ResNet50, GossipGraD is able to achieve ~100% compute efficiency using 128 NVIDIA Pascal P100 GPUs - while matching the top-1 classification accuracy published in literature.

  We study the problem of controllable generation of long-term sequential behaviors, where the goal is to calibrate to multiple behavior styles simultaneously. In contrast to the well-studied areas of controllable generation of images, text, and speech, there are two questions that pose significant challenges when generating long-term behaviors: how should we specify the factors of variation to control, and how can we ensure that the generated behavior faithfully demonstrates combinatorially many styles? We leverage programmatic labeling functions to specify controllable styles, and derive a formal notion of style-consistency as a learning objective, which can then be solved using conventional policy learning approaches. We evaluate our framework using demonstrations from professional basketball players and agents in the MuJoCo physics environment, and show that existing approaches that do not explicitly enforce style-consistency fail to generate diverse behaviors whereas our learned policies can be calibrated for up to 1024 distinct style combinations.

  Testing the implementation of deep learning systems and their training routines is crucial to maintain a reliable code base. Modern software development employs processes, such as Continuous Integration, in which changes to the software are frequently integrated and tested. However, testing the training routines requires running them and fully training a deep learning model can be resource-intensive, when using the full data set. Using only a subset of the training data can improve test run time, but can also reduce its effectiveness. We evaluate different ways for training set reduction and their ability to mimic the characteristics of model training with the original full data set. Our results underline the usefulness of training set reduction, especially in resource-constrained environments.

  We study a novel variant of online finite-horizon Markov Decision Processes with adversarially changing loss functions and initially unknown dynamics. In each episode, the learner suffers the loss accumulated along the trajectory realized by the policy chosen for the episode, and observes aggregate bandit feedback: the trajectory is revealed along with the cumulative loss suffered, rather than the individual losses encountered along the trajectory. Our main result is a computationally efficient algorithm with $O(\sqrt{K})$ regret for this setting, where $K$ is the number of episodes.   We establish this result via an efficient reduction to a novel bandit learning setting we call Distorted Linear Bandits (DLB), which is a variant of bandit linear optimization where actions chosen by the learner are adversarially distorted before they are committed. We then develop a computationally-efficient online algorithm for DLB for which we prove an $O(\sqrt{T})$ regret bound, where $T$ is the number of time steps. Our algorithm is based on online mirror descent with a self-concordant barrier regularization that employs a novel increasing learning rate schedule.

  Digital presence in the world of online social media entails significant privacy risks. In this work we consider a privacy threat to a social network in which an attacker has access to a subset of random walk-based node similarities, such as effective resistances (i.e., commute times) or personalized PageRank scores. Using these similarities, the attacker's goal is to infer as much information as possible about the underlying network, including any remaining unknown pairwise node similarities and edges.   For the effective resistance metric, we show that with just a small subset of measurements, the attacker can learn a large fraction of edges in a social network, even when the measurements are noisy. We also show that it is possible to learn a graph which accurately matches the underlying network on all other effective resistances. This second observation is interesting from a data mining perspective, since it can be expensive to accurately compute all effective resistances. As an alternative, our graphs learned from just a subset of approximate effective resistances can be used as surrogates in a wide range of applications that use effective resistances to probe graph structure, including for graph clustering, node centrality evaluation, and anomaly detection.   We obtain our results by formalizing the graph learning objective mathematically, using two optimization problems. One formulation is convex and can be solved provably in polynomial time. The other is not, but we solve it efficiently with projected gradient and coordinate descent. We demonstrate the effectiveness of these methods on a number of social networks obtained from Facebook. We also discuss how our methods can be generalized to other random walk-based similarities, such as personalized PageRank. Our code is available at https://github.com/cnmusco/graph-similarity-learning.

  Estimating the relative importance of each sample in a training set has important practical and theoretical value, such as in importance sampling or curriculum learning. This kind of focus on individual samples invokes the concept of sample-wise learnability: How easy is it to correctly learn each sample (cf. PAC learnability)? In this paper, we approach the sample-wise learnability problem within a deep learning context. We propose a measure of the learnability of a sample with a given deep neural network (DNN) model. The basic idea is to train the given model on the training set, and for each sample, aggregate the hits and misses over the entire training epochs. Our experiments show that the sample-wise learnability measure collected this way is highly linearly correlated across different DNN models (ResNet-20, VGG-16, and MobileNet), suggesting that such a measure can provide deep general insights on the data's properties. We expect our method to help develop better curricula for training, and help us better understand the data itself.

  We consider the framework of stochastic multi-armed bandit problems and study the possibilities and limitations of forecasters that perform an on-line exploration of the arms. These forecasters are assessed in terms of their simple regret, a regret notion that captures the fact that exploration is only constrained by the number of available rounds (not necessarily known in advance), in contrast to the case when the cumulative regret is considered and when exploitation needs to be performed at the same time. We believe that this performance criterion is suited to situations when the cost of pulling an arm is expressed in terms of resources rather than rewards. We discuss the links between the simple and the cumulative regret. One of the main results in the case of a finite number of arms is a general lower bound on the simple regret of a forecaster in terms of its cumulative regret: the smaller the latter, the larger the former. Keeping this result in mind, we then exhibit upper bounds on the simple regret of some forecasters. The paper ends with a study devoted to continuous-armed bandit problems; we show that the simple regret can be minimized with respect to a family of probability distributions if and only if the cumulative regret can be minimized for it. Based on this equivalence, we are able to prove that the separable metric spaces are exactly the metric spaces on which these regrets can be minimized with respect to the family of all probability distributions with continuous mean-payoff functions.

  Concolic execution and fuzzing are two complementary coverage-based testing techniques. How to achieve the best of both remains an open challenge. To address this research problem, we propose and evaluate Legion. Legion re-engineers the Monte Carlo tree search (MCTS) framework from the AI literature to treat automated test generation as a problem of sequential decision-making under uncertainty. Its best-first search strategy provides a principled way to learn the most promising program states to investigate at each search iteration, based on observed rewards from previous iterations. Legion incorporates a form of directed fuzzing that we call approximate path-preserving fuzzing (APPFuzzing) to investigate program states selected by MCTS. APPFuzzing serves as the Monte Carlo simulation technique and is implemented by extending prior work on constrained sampling. We evaluate Legion against competitors on 2531 benchmarks from the coverage category of Test-Comp 2020, as well as measuring its sensitivity to hyperparameters, demonstrating its effectiveness on a wide variety of input programs.

  We investigate the widely encountered problem of detecting communities in multiplex networks, such as social networks, with an unknown arbitrary heterogeneous structure. To improve detectability, we propose a generative model that leverages the multiplicity of a single community in multiple layers, with no prior assumption on the relation of communities among different layers. Our model relies on a novel idea of incorporating a large set of generic localized community label constraints across the layers, in conjunction with the celebrated Stochastic Block Model (SBM) in each layer. Accordingly, we build a probabilistic graphical model over the entire multiplex network by treating the constraints as Bayesian priors. We mathematically prove that these constraints/priors promote existence of identical communities across layers without introducing further correlation between individual communities. The constraints are further tailored to render a sparse graphical model and the numerically efficient Belief Propagation algorithm is subsequently employed. We further demonstrate by numerical experiments that in the presence of consistent communities between different layers, consistent communities are matched, and the detectability is improved over a single layer. We compare our model with a "correlated model" which exploits the prior knowledge of community correlation between layers. Similar detectability improvement is obtained under such a correlation, even though our model relies on much milder assumptions than the correlated model. Our model even shows a better detection performance over a certain correlation and signal to noise ratio (SNR) range. In the absence of community correlation, the correlation model naturally fails, while ours maintains its performance.

  Classifying limb movements using brain activity is an important task in Brain-computer Interfaces (BCI) that has been successfully used in multiple application domains, ranging from human-computer interaction to medical and biomedical applications. This paper proposes a novel solution for classification of left/right hand movement by exploiting a Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) network with attention mechanism to learn the electroencephalogram (EEG) time-series information. To this end, a wide range of time and frequency domain features are extracted from the EEG signals and used to train an LSTM network to perform the classification task. We conduct extensive experiments with the EEG Movement dataset and show that our proposed solution our method achieves improvements over several benchmarks and state-of-the-art methods in both intra-subject and cross-subject validation schemes. Moreover, we utilize the proposed framework to analyze the information as received by the sensors and monitor the activated regions of the brain by tracking EEG topography throughout the experiments.

  In reinforcement learning, the graph Laplacian has proved to be a valuable tool in the task-agnostic setting, with applications ranging from skill discovery to reward shaping. Recently, learning the Laplacian representation has been framed as the optimization of a temporally-contrastive objective to overcome its computational limitations in large (or continuous) state spaces. However, this approach requires uniform access to all states in the state space, overlooking the exploration problem that emerges during the representation learning process. In this work, we propose an alternative method that is able to recover, in a non-uniform-prior setting, the expressiveness and the desired properties of the Laplacian representation. We do so by combining the representation learning with a skill-based covering policy, which provides a better training distribution to extend and refine the representation. We also show that a simple augmentation of the representation objective with the learned temporal abstractions improves dynamics-awareness and helps exploration. We find that our method succeeds as an alternative to the Laplacian in the non-uniform setting and scales to challenging continuous control environments. Finally, even if our method is not optimized for skill discovery, the learned skills can successfully solve difficult continuous navigation tasks with sparse rewards, where standard skill discovery approaches are no so effective.

  We propose the supervised hierarchical Dirichlet process (sHDP), a nonparametric generative model for the joint distribution of a group of observations and a response variable directly associated with that whole group. We compare the sHDP with another leading method for regression on grouped data, the supervised latent Dirichlet allocation (sLDA) model. We evaluate our method on two real-world classification problems and two real-world regression problems. Bayesian nonparametric regression models based on the Dirichlet process, such as the Dirichlet process-generalised linear models (DP-GLM) have previously been explored; these models allow flexibility in modelling nonlinear relationships. However, until now, Hierarchical Dirichlet Process (HDP) mixtures have not seen significant use in supervised problems with grouped data since a straightforward application of the HDP on the grouped data results in learnt clusters that are not predictive of the responses. The sHDP solves this problem by allowing for clusters to be learnt jointly from the group structure and from the label assigned to each group.

Privacy in Federated Learning (FL) is studied at two different granularities: item-level, which protects individual data points, and user-level, which protects each user (participant) in the federation. Nearly all of the private FL literature is dedicated to studying privacy attacks and defenses at these two granularities. Recently, subject-level privacy has emerged as an alternative privacy granularity to protect the privacy of individuals (data subjects) whose data is spread across multiple (organizational) users in cross-silo FL settings. An adversary might be interested in recovering private information about these individuals (a.k.a. \emph{data subjects}) by attacking the trained model. A systematic study of these patterns requires complete control over the federation, which is impossible with real-world datasets. We design a simulator for generating various synthetic federation configurations, enabling us to study how properties of the data, model design and training, and the federation itself impact subject privacy risk. We propose three attacks for \emph{subject membership inference} and examine the interplay between all factors within a federation that affect the attacks' efficacy. We also investigate the effectiveness of Differential Privacy in mitigating this threat. Our takeaways generalize to real-world datasets like FEMNIST, giving credence to our findings.

  In this work we propose a new neural network architecture that efficiently implements and learns general purpose set-equivariant functions. Such a function f maps a set of entities x = {x1, . . . , xn} from one domain to a set of same cardinality y = f (x) = {y1, . . . , yn} in another domain regardless of the ordering of the entities. The architecture is based on a gated recurrent network which is iteratively applied to all entities individually and at the same time syncs with the progression of the whole population. In reminiscence to this pattern, which can be frequently observed in nature, we call our approach SWARM mapping. Set-equivariant and generally permutation invariant functions are important building blocks for many state of the art machine learning approaches. Even in applications where the permutation invariance is not of primary interest, as to be seen in the recent success of attention based transformer models (Vaswani et. al. 2017). Accordingly, we demonstrate the power and usefulness of SWARM mappings in different applications. We compare the performance of our approach with another recently proposed set-equivariant function, the Set Transformer (Lee et.al. 2018) and we demonstrate that models solely based on SWARM layers gives state of the art results.

  This paper presents new \emph{variance-aware} confidence sets for linear bandits and linear mixture Markov Decision Processes (MDPs). With the new confidence sets, we obtain the follow regret bounds: For linear bandits, we obtain an $\tilde{O}(poly(d)\sqrt{1 + \sum_{k=1}^{K}\sigma_k^2})$ data-dependent regret bound, where $d$ is the feature dimension, $K$ is the number of rounds, and $\sigma_k^2$ is the \emph{unknown} variance of the reward at the $k$-th round. This is the first regret bound that only scales with the variance and the dimension but \emph{no explicit polynomial dependency on $K$}. When variances are small, this bound can be significantly smaller than the $\tilde{\Theta}\left(d\sqrt{K}\right)$ worst-case regret bound. For linear mixture MDPs, we obtain an $\tilde{O}(poly(d, \log H)\sqrt{K})$ regret bound, where $d$ is the number of base models, $K$ is the number of episodes, and $H$ is the planning horizon. This is the first regret bound that only scales \emph{logarithmically} with $H$ in the reinforcement learning with linear function approximation setting, thus \emph{exponentially improving} existing results, and resolving an open problem in \citep{zhou2020nearly}. We develop three technical ideas that may be of independent interest: 1) applications of the peeling technique to both the input norm and the variance magnitude, 2) a recursion-based estimator for the variance, and 3) a new convex potential lemma that generalizes the seminal elliptical potential lemma.

  Pooling operations have shown to be effective on computer vision and natural language processing tasks. One challenge of performing pooling operations on graph data is the lack of locality that is not well-defined on graphs. Previous studies used global ranking methods to sample some of the important nodes, but most of them are not able to incorporate graph topology. In this work, we propose the topology-aware pooling (TAP) layer that explicitly considers graph topology. Our TAP layer is a two-stage voting process that selects more important nodes in a graph. It first performs local voting to generate scores for each node by attending each node to its neighboring nodes. The scores are generated locally such that topology information is explicitly considered. In addition, graph topology is incorporated in global voting to compute the importance score of each node globally in the entire graph. Altogether, the final ranking score for each node is computed by combining its local and global voting scores. To encourage better graph connectivity in the sampled graph, we propose to add a graph connectivity term to the computation of ranking scores. Results on graph classification tasks demonstrate that our methods achieve consistently better performance than previous methods.

  Chaos and Noise are ubiquitous in the Brain. Inspired by the chaotic firing of neurons and the constructive role of noise in neuronal models, we for the first time connect chaos, noise and learning. In this paper, we demonstrate Stochastic Resonance (SR) phenomenon in Neurochaos Learning (NL). SR manifests at the level of a single neuron of NL and enables efficient subthreshold signal detection. Furthermore, SR is shown to occur in single and multiple neuronal NL architecture for classification tasks - both on simulated and real-world spoken digit datasets. Intermediate levels of noise in neurochaos learning enables peak performance in classification tasks thus highlighting the role of SR in AI applications, especially in brain inspired learning architectures.

  Much of human knowledge sits in large databases of unstructured text. Leveraging this knowledge requires algorithms that extract and record metadata on unstructured text documents. Assigning topics to documents will enable intelligent search, statistical characterization, and meaningful classification. Latent Dirichlet allocation (LDA) is the state-of-the-art in topic classification. Here, we perform a systematic theoretical and numerical analysis that demonstrates that current optimization techniques for LDA often yield results which are not accurate in inferring the most suitable model parameters. Adapting approaches for community detection in networks, we propose a new algorithm which displays high-reproducibility and high-accuracy, and also has high computational efficiency. We apply it to a large set of documents in the English Wikipedia and reveal its hierarchical structure. Our algorithm promises to make "big data" text analysis systems more reliable.

The sequence of visits and procedures performed by the patient in the health system, also known as the patient's pathway or trajectory, can reveal important information about the clinical treatment adopted and the health service provided. The rise of electronic health data availability made it possible to assess the pathways of a large number of patients. Nevertheless, some challenges also arose concerning how to synthesize these pathways and how to mine them from the data, fostering a new field of research. The objective of this review is to survey this new field of research, highlighting representation models, mining techniques, methods of analysis, and examples of case studies.

  We propose the use of self-supervised learning for human activity recognition with smartphone accelerometer data. Our proposed solution consists of two steps. First, the representations of unlabeled input signals are learned by training a deep convolutional neural network to predict a segment of accelerometer values. Our model exploits a novel scheme to leverage past and present motion in x and y dimensions, as well as past values of the z axis to predict values in the z dimension. This cross-dimensional prediction approach results in effective pretext training with which our model learns to extract strong representations. Next, we freeze the convolution blocks and transfer the weights to our downstream network aimed at human activity recognition. For this task, we add a number of fully connected layers to the end of the frozen network and train the added layers with labeled accelerometer signals to learn to classify human activities. We evaluate the performance of our method on three publicly available human activity datasets: UCI HAR, MotionSense, and HAPT. The results show that our approach outperforms the existing methods and sets new state-of-the-art results.

  Making mock simulated catalogs is an important component of astrophysical data analysis. Selection criteria for observed astronomical objects are often too complicated to be derived from first principles. However the existence of an observed group of objects is a well-suited problem for machine learning classification. In this paper we use one-class classifiers to learn the properties of an observed catalog of clusters of galaxies from ROSAT and to pick clusters from mock simulations that resemble the observed ROSAT catalog. We show how this method can be used to study the cross-correlations of thermal Sunya'ev-Zeldovich signals with number density maps of X-ray selected cluster catalogs. The method reduces the bias due to hand-tuning the selection function and is readily scalable to large catalogs with a high-dimensional space of astrophysical features.

  Deep learning emerges as an important new resource-intensive workload and has been successfully applied in computer vision, speech, natural language processing, and so on. Distributed deep learning is becoming a necessity to cope with growing data and model sizes. Its computation is typically characterized by a simple tensor data abstraction to model multi-dimensional matrices, a data-flow graph to model computation, and iterative executions with relatively frequent synchronizations, thereby making it substantially different from Map/Reduce style distributed big data computation.   RPC, commonly used as the communication primitive, has been adopted by popular deep learning frameworks such as TensorFlow, which uses gRPC. We show that RPC is sub-optimal for distributed deep learning computation, especially on an RDMA-capable network. The tensor abstraction and data-flow graph, coupled with an RDMA network, offers the opportunity to reduce the unnecessary overhead (e.g., memory copy) without sacrificing programmability and generality. In particular, from a data access point of view, a remote machine is abstracted just as a "device" on an RDMA channel, with a simple memory interface for allocating, reading, and writing memory regions. Our graph analyzer looks at both the data flow graph and the tensors to optimize memory allocation and remote data access using this interface. The result is up to 25 times speedup in representative deep learning benchmarks against the standard gRPC in TensorFlow and up to 169% improvement even against an RPC implementation optimized for RDMA, leading to faster convergence in the training process.

  Designing robust loss functions is popular in learning with noisy labels while existing designs did not explicitly consider the overfitting property of deep neural networks (DNNs). As a result, applying these losses may still suffer from overfitting/memorizing noisy labels as training proceeds. In this paper, we first theoretically analyze the memorization effect and show that a lower-capacity model may perform better on noisy datasets. However, it is non-trivial to design a neural network with the best capacity given an arbitrary task. To circumvent this dilemma, instead of changing the model architecture, we decouple DNNs into an encoder followed by a linear classifier and propose to restrict the function space of a DNN by a representation regularizer. Particularly, we require the distance between two self-supervised features to be positively related to the distance between the corresponding two supervised model outputs. Our proposed framework is easily extendable and can incorporate many other robust loss functions to further improve performance. Extensive experiments and theoretical analyses support our claims. Code is available at github.com/UCSC-REAL/SelfSup_NoisyLabel.

  Generating temporally coherent high fidelity video is an important milestone in generative modeling research. We make progress towards this milestone by proposing a diffusion model for video generation that shows very promising initial results. Our model is a natural extension of the standard image diffusion architecture, and it enables jointly training from image and video data, which we find to reduce the variance of minibatch gradients and speed up optimization. To generate long and higher resolution videos we introduce a new conditional sampling technique for spatial and temporal video extension that performs better than previously proposed methods. We present the first results on a large text-conditioned video generation task, as well as state-of-the-art results on an established unconditional video generation benchmark. Supplementary material is available at https://video-diffusion.github.io/

  Neural machine learning models can successfully model language that is similar to their training distribution, but they are highly susceptible to degradation under distribution shift, which occurs in many practical applications when processing out-of-domain (OOD) text. This has been attributed to "shortcut learning": relying on weak correlations over arbitrary large contexts.   We propose a method based on OOD detection with Random Network Distillation to allow an autoregressive language model to automatically disregard OOD context during inference, smoothly transitioning towards a less expressive but more robust model as the data becomes more OOD while retaining its full context capability when operating in-distribution. We apply our method to a GRU architecture, demonstrating improvements on multiple language modeling (LM) datasets.

  As algorithmic decision-making systems are becoming more pervasive, it is crucial to ensure such systems do not become mechanisms of unfair discrimination on the basis of gender, race, ethnicity, religion, etc. Moreover, due to the inherent trade-off between fairness measures and accuracy, it is desirable to learn fairness-enhanced models without significantly compromising the accuracy. In this paper, we propose Pareto efficient Fairness (PEF) as a suitable fairness notion for supervised learning, that can ensure the optimal trade-off between overall loss and other fairness criteria. The proposed PEF notion is definition-agnostic, meaning that any well-defined notion of fairness can be reduced to the PEF notion. To efficiently find a PEF classifier, we cast the fairness-enhanced classification as a bilevel optimization problem and propose a gradient-based method that can guarantee the solution belongs to the Pareto frontier with provable guarantees for convex and non-convex objectives. We also generalize the proposed algorithmic solution to extract and trace arbitrary solutions from the Pareto frontier for a given preference over accuracy and fairness measures. This approach is generic and can be generalized to any multicriteria optimization problem to trace points on the Pareto frontier curve, which is interesting by its own right. We empirically demonstrate the effectiveness of the PEF solution and the extracted Pareto frontier on real-world datasets compared to state-of-the-art methods.

  In this study, a novel coordinative scheduling optimization approach is proposed to enhance port efficiency by reducing average wait time and turnaround time. The proposed approach consists of enhanced particle swarm optimization (ePSO) as kernel and augmented firefly algorithm (AFA) as global optimal search. Two paradigm methods of the proposed approach are investigated, which are batch method and rolling horizon method. The experimental results show that both paradigm methods of proposed approach can effectively enhance port efficiency. The average wait time could be significantly reduced by 86.0% - 95.5%, and the average turnaround time could eventually save 38.2% - 42.4% with respect to historical benchmarks. Moreover, the paradigm method of rolling horizon could reduce to 20 mins on running time over 3-month datasets, rather than 4 hrs on batch method at corresponding maximum performance.

  Parameterized quantum circuits serve as ans\"{a}tze for solving variational problems and provide a flexible paradigm for programming near-term quantum computers. Ideally, such ans\"{a}tze should be highly expressive so that a close approximation of the desired solution can be accessed. On the other hand, the ansatz must also have sufficiently large gradients to allow for training. Here, we derive a fundamental relationship between these two essential properties: expressibility and trainability. This is done by extending the well established barren plateau phenomenon, which holds for ans\"{a}tze that form exact 2-designs, to arbitrary ans\"{a}tze. Specifically, we calculate the variance in the cost gradient in terms of the expressibility of the ansatz, as measured by its distance from being a 2-design. Our resulting bounds indicate that highly expressive ans\"{a}tze exhibit flatter cost landscapes and therefore will be harder to train. Furthermore, we provide numerics illustrating the effect of expressiblity on gradient scalings, and we discuss the implications for designing strategies to avoid barren plateaus.

  Unsupervised multi-object scene decomposition is a fast-emerging problem in representation learning. Despite significant progress in static scenes, such models are unable to leverage important dynamic cues present in video. We propose a novel spatio-temporal iterative inference framework that is powerful enough to jointly model complex multi-object representations and explicit temporal dependencies between latent variables across frames. This is achieved by leveraging 2D-LSTM, temporally conditioned inference and generation within the iterative amortized inference for posterior refinement. Our method improves the overall quality of decompositions, encodes information about the objects' dynamics, and can be used to predict trajectories of each object separately. Additionally, we show that our model has a high accuracy even without color information. We demonstrate the decomposition, segmentation, and prediction capabilities of our model and show that it outperforms the state-of-the-art on several benchmark datasets, one of which was curated for this work and will be made publicly available.

  It is a truth universally acknowledged that an observed association without known mechanism must be in want of a causal estimate. However, causal estimation from observational data often relies on the (untestable) assumption of `no unobserved confounding'. Violations of this assumption can induce bias in effect estimates. In principle, such bias could invalidate or reverse the conclusions of a study. However, in some cases, we might hope that the influence of unobserved confounders is weak relative to a `large' estimated effect, so the qualitative conclusions are robust to bias from unobserved confounding. The purpose of this paper is to develop \emph{Austen plots}, a sensitivity analysis tool to aid such judgments by making it easier to reason about potential bias induced by unobserved confounding. We formalize confounding strength in terms of how strongly the confounder influences treatment assignment and outcome. For a target level of bias, an Austen plot shows the minimum values of treatment and outcome influence required to induce that level of bias. Domain experts can then make subjective judgments about whether such strong confounders are plausible. To aid this judgment, the Austen plot additionally displays the estimated influence strength of (groups of) the observed covariates. Austen plots generalize the classic sensitivity analysis approach of Imbens [Imb03]. Critically, Austen plots allow any approach for modeling the observed data and producing the initial estimate. We illustrate the tool by assessing biases for several real causal inference problems, using a variety of machine learning approaches for the initial data analysis. Code is available at https://github.com/anishazaveri/austen_plots

  High sample complexity remains a barrier to the application of reinforcement learning (RL), particularly in multi-agent systems. A large body of work has demonstrated that exploration mechanisms based on the principle of optimism under uncertainty can significantly improve the sample efficiency of RL in single agent tasks. This work seeks to understand the role of optimistic exploration in non-cooperative multi-agent settings. We will show that, in zero-sum games, optimistic exploration can cause the learner to waste time sampling parts of the state space that are irrelevant to strategic play, as they can only be reached through cooperation between both players. To address this issue, we introduce a formal notion of strategically efficient exploration in Markov games, and use this to develop two strategically efficient learning algorithms for finite Markov games. We demonstrate that these methods can be significantly more sample efficient than their optimistic counterparts.

  Ensemble methods are generally regarded to be better than a single model if the base learners are deemed to be "accurate" and "diverse." Here we investigate a semi-supervised ensemble learning strategy to produce generalizable blind image quality assessment models. We train a multi-head convolutional network for quality prediction by maximizing the accuracy of the ensemble (as well as the base learners) on labeled data, and the disagreement (i.e., diversity) among them on unlabeled data, both implemented by the fidelity loss. We conduct extensive experiments to demonstrate the advantages of employing unlabeled data for BIQA, especially in model generalization and failure identification.

  Embedded systems have proliferated in various consumer and industrial applications with the evolution of Cyber-Physical Systems and the Internet of Things. These systems are subjected to stringent constraints so that embedded software must be optimized for multiple objectives simultaneously, namely reduced energy consumption, execution time, and code size. Compilers offer optimization phases to improve these metrics. However, proper selection and ordering of them depends on multiple factors and typically requires expert knowledge. State-of-the-art optimizers facilitate different platforms and applications case by case, and they are limited by optimizing one metric at a time, as well as requiring a time-consuming adaptation for different targets through dynamic profiling.   To address these problems, we propose the novel MLComp methodology, in which optimization phases are sequenced by a Reinforcement Learning-based policy. Training of the policy is supported by Machine Learning-based analytical models for quick performance estimation, thereby drastically reducing the time spent for dynamic profiling. In our framework, different Machine Learning models are automatically tested to choose the best-fitting one. The trained Performance Estimator model is leveraged to efficiently devise Reinforcement Learning-based multi-objective policies for creating quasi-optimal phase sequences.   Compared to state-of-the-art estimation models, our Performance Estimator model achieves lower relative error (<2%) with up to 50x faster training time over multiple platforms and application domains. Our Phase Selection Policy improves execution time and energy consumption of a given code by up to 12% and 6%, respectively. The Performance Estimator and the Phase Selection Policy can be trained efficiently for any target platform and application domain.

  In tabular case, when the reward and environment dynamics are known, policy evaluation can be written as $\bm{V}_{\bm{\pi}} = (I - \gamma P_{\bm{\pi}})^{-1} \bm{r}_{\bm{\pi}}$, where $P_{\bm{\pi}}$ is the state transition matrix given policy ${\bm{\pi}}$ and $\bm{r}_{\bm{\pi}}$ is the reward signal given ${\bm{\pi}}$. What annoys us is that $P_{\bm{\pi}}$ and $\bm{r}_{\bm{\pi}}$ are both mixed with ${\bm{\pi}}$, which means every time when we update ${\bm{\pi}}$, they will change together. In this paper, we leverage the notation from \cite{wang2007dual} to disentangle ${\bm{\pi}}$ and environment dynamics which makes optimization over policy more straightforward. We show that policy gradient theorem \cite{sutton2018reinforcement} and TRPO \cite{schulman2015trust} can be put into a more general framework and such notation has good potential to be extended to model-based reinforcement learning.

  Recent studies in zero-shot cross-lingual learning using multilingual models have falsified the previous hypothesis that shared vocabulary and joint pre-training are the keys to cross-lingual generalization. Inspired by this advancement, we introduce a cross-lingual transfer method for monolingual models based on domain adaptation. We study the effects of such transfer from four different languages to English. Our experimental results on GLUE show that the transferred models outperform the native English model independently of the source language. After probing the English linguistic knowledge encoded in the representations before and after transfer, we find that semantic information is retained from the source language, while syntactic information is learned during transfer. Additionally, the results of evaluating the transferred models in source language tasks reveal that their performance in the source domain deteriorates after transfer.

  The contemporary process-aware information systems possess the capabilities to record the activities generated during the process execution. To leverage these process specific fine-granular data, process mining has recently emerged as a promising research discipline. As an important branch of process mining, predictive business process management, pursues the objective to generate forward-looking, predictive insights to shape business processes. In this study, we propose a conceptual framework sought to establish and promote understanding of decision-making environment, underlying business processes and nature of the user characteristics for developing explainable business process prediction solutions. Consequently, with regard to the theoretical and practical implications of the framework, this study proposes a novel local post-hoc explanation approach for a deep learning classifier that is expected to facilitate the domain experts in justifying the model decisions. In contrary to alternative popular perturbation-based local explanation approaches, this study defines the local regions from the validation dataset by using the intermediate latent space representations learned by the deep neural networks. To validate the applicability of the proposed explanation method, the real-life process log data delivered by the Volvo IT Belgium's incident management system are used.The adopted deep learning classifier achieves a good performance with the Area Under the ROC Curve of 0.94. The generated local explanations are also visualized and presented with relevant evaluation measures that are expected to increase the users' trust in the black-box-model.

  This paper presents an autoencoder based unsupervised approach to identify anomaly in an industrial machine using sounds produced by the machine. The proposed framework is trained using log-melspectrogram representations of the sound signal. In classification, our hypothesis is that the reconstruction error computed for an abnormal machine is larger than that of the a normal machine, since only normal machine sounds are being used to train the autoencoder. A threshold is chosen to discriminate between normal and abnormal machines. However, the threshold changes as surrounding conditions vary. To select an appropriate threshold irrespective of the surrounding, we propose a scene classification framework, which can classify the underlying surrounding. Hence, the threshold can be selected adaptively irrespective of the surrounding. The experiment evaluation is performed on MIMII dataset for industrial machines namely fan, pump, valve and slide rail. Our experiment analysis shows that utilizing adaptive threshold, the performance improves significantly as that obtained using the fixed threshold computed for a given surrounding only.

The use of sparse neural networks has seen rapid growth in recent years, particularly in computer vision. Their appeal stems largely from the reduced number of parameters required to train and store, as well as in an increase in learning efficiency. Somewhat surprisingly, there have been very few efforts exploring their use in Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL). In this work we perform a systematic investigation into applying a number of existing sparse training techniques on a variety of DRL agents and environments. Our results corroborate the findings from sparse training in the computer vision domain - sparse networks perform better than dense networks for the same parameter count - in the DRL domain. We provide detailed analyses on how the various components in DRL are affected by the use of sparse networks and conclude by suggesting promising avenues for improving the effectiveness of sparse training methods, as well as for advancing their use in DRL.

  The Bayesian framework is ideally suited for induction problems. The probability of observing $x_t$ at time $t$, given past observations $x_1...x_{t-1}$ can be computed with Bayes' rule if the true distribution $\mu$ of the sequences $x_1x_2x_3...$ is known. The problem, however, is that in many cases one does not even have a reasonable estimate of the true distribution. In order to overcome this problem a universal distribution $\xi$ is defined as a weighted sum of distributions $\mu_i\inM$, where $M$ is any countable set of distributions including $\mu$. This is a generalization of Solomonoff induction, in which $M$ is the set of all enumerable semi-measures. Systems which predict $y_t$, given $x_1...x_{t-1}$ and which receive loss $l_{x_t y_t}$ if $x_t$ is the true next symbol of the sequence are considered. It is proven that using the universal $\xi$ as a prior is nearly as good as using the unknown true distribution $\mu$. Furthermore, games of chance, defined as a sequence of bets, observations, and rewards are studied. The time needed to reach the winning zone is bounded in terms of the relative entropy of $\mu$ and $\xi$. Extensions to arbitrary alphabets, partial and delayed prediction, and more active systems are discussed.

  Effective, robust, and automatic tools for brain tumor segmentation are needed for the extraction of information useful in treatment planning from magnetic resonance (MR) images. Context-aware artificial intelligence is an emerging concept for the development of deep learning applications for computer-aided medical image analysis. In this work, it is investigated whether the addition of contextual information from the brain anatomy in the form of white matter, gray matter, and cerebrospinal fluid masks and probability maps improves U-Net-based brain tumor segmentation. The BraTS2020 dataset was used to train and test two standard 3D U-Net models that, in addition to the conventional MR image modalities, used the anatomical contextual information as extra channels in the form of binary masks (CIM) or probability maps (CIP). A baseline model (BLM) that only used the conventional MR image modalities was also trained. The impact of adding contextual information was investigated in terms of overall segmentation accuracy, model training time, domain generalization, and compensation for fewer MR modalities available for each subject. Results show that there is no statistically significant difference when comparing Dice scores between the baseline model and the contextual information models, even when comparing performances for high- and low-grade tumors independently. Only in the case of compensation for fewer MR modalities available for each subject did the addition of anatomical contextual information significantly improve the segmentation of the whole tumor. Overall, there is no overall significant improvement in segmentation performance when using anatomical contextual information in the form of either binary masks or probability maps as extra channels.

  We consider the problem of decision-making with side information and unbounded loss functions. Inspired by probably approximately correct learning model, we use a slightly different model that incorporates the notion of side information in a more generic form to make it applicable to a broader class of applications including parameter estimation and system identification. We address sufficient conditions for consistent decision-making with exponential convergence behavior. In this regard, besides a certain condition on the growth function of the class of loss functions, it suffices that the class of loss functions be dominated by a measurable function whose exponential Orlicz expectation is uniformly bounded over the probabilistic model. Decay exponent, decay constant, and sample complexity are discussed. Example applications to method of moments, maximum likelihood estimation, and system identification are illustrated, as well.

  We propose a general framework for finding the ground state of many-body fermionic systems by using feed-forward neural networks. The anticommutation relation for fermions is usually implemented to a variational wave function by the Slater determinant (or Pfaffian), which is a computational bottleneck because of the numerical cost of $O(N^3)$ for $N$ particles. We bypass this bottleneck by explicitly calculating the sign changes associated with particle exchanges in real space and using fully connected neural networks for optimizing the rest parts of the wave function. This reduces the computational cost to $O(N^2)$ or less. We show that the accuracy of the approximation can be improved by optimizing the "variance" of the energy simultaneously with the energy itself. We also find that a reweighting method in Monte Carlo sampling can stabilize the calculation. These improvements can be applied to other approaches based on variational Monte Carlo methods. Moreover, we show that the accuracy can be further improved by using the symmetry of the system, the representative states, and an additional neural network implementing a generalized Gutzwiller-Jastrow factor. We demonstrate the efficiency of the method by applying it to a two-dimensional Hubbard model.

  This paper presents simple and efficient methods to mitigate sampling bias in active learning while achieving state-of-the-art accuracy and model robustness. We introduce supervised contrastive active learning by leveraging the contrastive loss for active learning under a supervised setting. We propose an unbiased query strategy that selects informative data samples of diverse feature representations with our methods: supervised contrastive active learning (SCAL) and deep feature modeling (DFM). We empirically demonstrate our proposed methods reduce sampling bias, achieve state-of-the-art accuracy and model calibration in an active learning setup with the query computation 26x faster than Bayesian active learning by disagreement and 11x faster than CoreSet. The proposed SCAL method outperforms by a big margin in robustness to dataset shift and out-of-distribution.

  In this paper, we propose an efficient NAS algorithm for generating task-specific models that are competitive under multiple competing objectives. It comprises of two surrogates, one at the architecture level to improve sample efficiency and one at the weights level, through a supernet, to improve gradient descent training efficiency. On standard benchmark datasets (C10, C100, ImageNet), the resulting models, dubbed NSGANetV2, either match or outperform models from existing approaches with the search being orders of magnitude more sample efficient. Furthermore, we demonstrate the effectiveness and versatility of the proposed method on six diverse non-standard datasets, e.g. STL-10, Flowers102, Oxford Pets, FGVC Aircrafts etc. In all cases, NSGANetV2s improve the state-of-the-art (under mobile setting), suggesting that NAS can be a viable alternative to conventional transfer learning approaches in handling diverse scenarios such as small-scale or fine-grained datasets. Code is available at https://github.com/mikelzc1990/nsganetv2

  Mathematical expressions were generated, evaluated and used to train neural network models based on the transformer architecture. The expressions and their targets were analyzed as a character-level sequence transduction task in which the encoder and decoder are built on attention mechanisms. Three models were trained to understand and evaluate symbolic variables and expressions in mathematics: (1) the self-attentive and feed-forward transformer without recurrence or convolution, (2) the universal transformer with recurrence, and (3) the adaptive universal transformer with recurrence and adaptive computation time. The models respectively achieved test accuracies as high as 76.1%, 78.8% and 84.9% in evaluating the expressions to match the target values. For the cases inferred incorrectly, the results differed from the targets by only one or two characters. The models notably learned to add, subtract and multiply both positive and negative decimal numbers of variable digits assigned to symbolic variables.

  Predictor-based algorithms have achieved remarkable performance in the Neural Architecture Search (NAS) tasks. However, these methods suffer from high computation costs, as training the performance predictor usually requires training and evaluating hundreds of architectures from scratch. Previous works along this line mainly focus on reducing the number of architectures required to fit the predictor. In this work, we tackle this challenge from a different perspective - improve search efficiency by cutting down the computation budget of architecture training. We propose NOn-uniform Successive Halving (NOSH), a hierarchical scheduling algorithm that terminates the training of underperforming architectures early to avoid wasting budget. To effectively leverage the non-uniform supervision signals produced by NOSH, we formulate predictor-based architecture search as learning to rank with pairwise comparisons. The resulting method - RANK-NOSH, reduces the search budget by ~5x while achieving competitive or even better performance than previous state-of-the-art predictor-based methods on various spaces and datasets.

  Newsletters and social networks can reflect the opinion about the market and specific stocks from the perspective of analysts and the general public on products and/or services provided by a company. Therefore, sentiment analysis of these texts can provide useful information to help investors trade in the market. In this paper, a hierarchical stack of Transformers model is proposed to identify the sentiment associated with companies and stocks, by predicting a score (of data type real) in a range between -1 and +1. Specifically, we fine-tuned a RoBERTa model to process headlines and microblogs and combined it with additional Transformer layers to process the sentence analysis with sentiment dictionaries to improve the sentiment analysis. We evaluated it on financial data released by SemEval-2017 task 5 and our proposition outperformed the best systems of SemEval-2017 task 5 and strong baselines. Indeed, the combination of contextual sentence analysis with the financial and general sentiment dictionaries provided useful information to our model and allowed it to generate more reliable sentiment scores.

  This article provides an overview of the Collective Knowledge technology (CK or cKnowledge). CK attempts to make it easier to reproduce ML&systems research, deploy ML models in production, and adapt them to continuously changing data sets, models, research techniques, software, and hardware. The CK concept is to decompose complex systems and ad-hoc research projects into reusable sub-components with unified APIs, CLI, and JSON meta description. Such components can be connected into portable workflows using DevOps principles combined with reusable automation actions, software detection plugins, meta packages, and exposed optimization parameters. CK workflows can automatically plug in different models, data and tools from different vendors while building, running and benchmarking research code in a unified way across diverse platforms and environments. Such workflows also help to perform whole system optimization, reproduce results, and compare them using public or private scoreboards on the CK platform (https://cKnowledge.io). For example, the modular CK approach was successfully validated with industrial partners to automatically co-design and optimize software, hardware, and machine learning models for reproducible and efficient object detection in terms of speed, accuracy, energy, size, and other characteristics. The long-term goal is to simplify and accelerate the development and deployment of ML models and systems by helping researchers and practitioners to share and reuse their knowledge, experience, best practices, artifacts, and techniques using open CK APIs.

Employing deep neural networks (DNNs) to directly learn filters for multi-channel speech enhancement has potentially two key advantages over a traditional approach combining a linear spatial filter with an independent tempo-spectral post-filter: 1) non-linear spatial filtering allows to overcome potential restrictions originating from a linear processing model and 2) joint processing of spatial and tempo-spectral information allows to exploit interdependencies between different sources of information. A variety of DNN-based non-linear filters have been proposed recently, for which good enhancement performance is reported. However, little is known about the internal mechanisms which turns network architecture design into a game of chance. Therefore, in this paper, we perform experiments to better understand the internal processing of spatial, spectral and temporal information by DNN-based non-linear filters. On the one hand, our experiments in a difficult speech extraction scenario confirm the importance of non-linear spatial filtering, which outperforms an oracle linear spatial filter by 0.24 POLQA score. On the other hand, we demonstrate that joint processing results in a large performance gap of 0.4 POLQA score between network architectures exploiting spectral versus temporal information besides spatial information.

  We study the dynamics and implicit bias of gradient flow (GF) on univariate ReLU neural networks with a single hidden layer in a binary classification setting. We show that when the labels are determined by the sign of a target network with $r$ neurons, with high probability over the initialization of the network and the sampling of the dataset, GF converges in direction (suitably defined) to a network achieving perfect training accuracy and having at most $\mathcal{O}(r)$ linear regions, implying a generalization bound. Our result may already hold for mild over-parameterization, where the width is $\tilde{\mathcal{O}}(r)$ and independent of the sample size.

  Regularized regression problems are ubiquitous in statistical modeling, signal processing, and machine learning. Sparse regression in particular has been instrumental in scientific model discovery, including compressed sensing applications, variable selection, and high-dimensional analysis. We propose a broad framework for sparse relaxed regularized regression, called SR3. The key idea is to solve a relaxation of the regularized problem, which has three advantages over the state-of-the-art: (1) solutions of the relaxed problem are superior with respect to errors, false positives, and conditioning, (2) relaxation allows extremely fast algorithms for both convex and nonconvex formulations, and (3) the methods apply to composite regularizers such as total variation (TV) and its nonconvex variants. We demonstrate the advantages of SR3 (computational efficiency, higher accuracy, faster convergence rates, greater flexibility) across a range of regularized regression problems with synthetic and real data, including applications in compressed sensing, LASSO, matrix completion, TV regularization, and group sparsity. To promote reproducible research, we also provide a companion MATLAB package that implements these examples.

  Recent work across many machine learning disciplines has highlighted that standard descent methods, even without explicit regularization, do not merely minimize the training error, but also exhibit an implicit bias. This bias is typically towards a certain regularized solution, and relies upon the details of the learning process, for instance the use of the cross-entropy loss.   In this work, we show that for empirical risk minimization over linear predictors with arbitrary convex, strictly decreasing losses, if the risk does not attain its infimum, then the gradient-descent path and the algorithm-independent regularization path converge to the same direction (whenever either converges to a direction). Using this result, we provide a justification for the widely-used exponentially-tailed losses (such as the exponential loss or the logistic loss): while this convergence to a direction for exponentially-tailed losses is necessarily to the maximum-margin direction, other losses such as polynomially-tailed losses may induce convergence to a direction with a poor margin.

  Recently, physics-informed neural networks (PINNs) have offered a powerful new paradigm for solving problems relating to differential equations. Compared to classical numerical methods PINNs have several advantages, for example their ability to provide mesh-free solutions of differential equations and their ability to carry out forward and inverse modelling within the same optimisation problem. Whilst promising, a key limitation to date is that PINNs have struggled to accurately and efficiently solve problems with large domains and/or multi-scale solutions, which is crucial for their real-world application. Multiple significant and related factors contribute to this issue, including the increasing complexity of the underlying PINN optimisation problem as the problem size grows and the spectral bias of neural networks. In this work we propose a new, scalable approach for solving large problems relating to differential equations called Finite Basis PINNs (FBPINNs). FBPINNs are inspired by classical finite element methods, where the solution of the differential equation is expressed as the sum of a finite set of basis functions with compact support. In FBPINNs neural networks are used to learn these basis functions, which are defined over small, overlapping subdomains. FBINNs are designed to address the spectral bias of neural networks by using separate input normalisation over each subdomain, and reduce the complexity of the underlying optimisation problem by using many smaller neural networks in a parallel divide-and-conquer approach. Our numerical experiments show that FBPINNs are effective in solving both small and larger, multi-scale problems, outperforming standard PINNs in both accuracy and computational resources required, potentially paving the way to the application of PINNs on large, real-world problems.

  The success of deep neural networks in image classification and learning can be partly attributed to the features they extract from images. It is often speculated about the properties of a low-dimensional manifold that models extract and learn from images. However, there is not sufficient understanding about this low-dimensional space based on theory or empirical evidence. For image classification models, their last hidden layer is the one where images of each class is separated from other classes and it also has the least number of features. Here, we develop methods and formulations to study that feature space for any model. We study the partitioning of the domain in feature space, identify regions guaranteed to have certain classifications, and investigate its implications for the pixel space. We observe that geometric arrangements of decision boundaries in feature space is significantly different compared to pixel space, providing insights about adversarial vulnerabilities, image morphing, extrapolation, ambiguity in classification, and the mathematical understanding of image classification models.

  SHAP explanations aim at identifying which features contribute the most to the difference in model prediction at a specific input versus a background distribution. Recent studies have shown that they can be manipulated by malicious adversaries to produce arbitrary desired explanations. However, existing attacks focus solely on altering the black-box model itself. In this paper, we propose a complementary family of attacks that leave the model intact and manipulate SHAP explanations using stealthily biased sampling of the data points used to approximate expectations w.r.t the background distribution. In the context of fairness audit, we show that our attack can reduce the importance of a sensitive feature when explaining the difference in outcomes between groups, while remaining undetected. These results highlight the manipulability of SHAP explanations and encourage auditors to treat post-hoc explanations with skepticism.

  In the recent past, psychological stress has been increasingly observed in humans, and early detection is crucial to prevent health risks. Stress detection using on-device deep learning algorithms has been on the rise owing to advancements in pervasive computing. However, an important challenge that needs to be addressed is handling unlabeled data in real-time via suitable ground truthing techniques (like Active Learning), which should help establish affective states (labels) while also selecting only the most informative data points to query from an oracle. In this paper, we propose a framework with capabilities to represent model uncertainties through approximations in Bayesian Neural Networks using Monte-Carlo (MC) Dropout. This is combined with suitable acquisition functions for active learning. Empirical results on a popular stress and affect detection dataset experimented on a Raspberry Pi 2 indicate that our proposed framework achieves a considerable efficiency boost during inference, with a substantially low number of acquired pool points during active learning across various acquisition functions. Variation Ratios achieves an accuracy of 90.38% which is comparable to the maximum test accuracy achieved while training on about 40% lesser data.

  COVID-19 pandemic has an unprecedented impact all over the world since early 2020. During this public health crisis, reliable forecasting of the disease becomes critical for resource allocation and administrative planning. The results from compartmental models such as SIR and SEIR are popularly referred by CDC and news media. With more and more COVID-19 data becoming available, we examine the following question: Can a direct data-driven approach without modeling the disease spreading dynamics outperform the well referred compartmental models and their variants? In this paper, we show the possibility. It is observed that as COVID-19 spreads at different speed and scale in different geographic regions, it is highly likely that similar progression patterns are shared among these regions within different time periods. This intuition lead us to develop a new neural forecasting model, called Attention Crossing Time Series (\textbf{ACTS}), that makes forecasts via comparing patterns across time series obtained from multiple regions. The attention mechanism originally developed for natural language processing can be leveraged and generalized to materialize this idea. Among 13 out of 18 testings including forecasting newly confirmed cases, hospitalizations and deaths, \textbf{ACTS} outperforms all the leading COVID-19 forecasters highlighted by CDC.

  Most existing domain adaptation methods focus on adaptation from only one source domain, however, in practice there are a number of relevant sources that could be leveraged to help improve performance on target domain. We propose a novel approach named T-SVDNet to address the task of Multi-source Domain Adaptation (MDA), which is featured by incorporating Tensor Singular Value Decomposition (T-SVD) into a neural network's training pipeline. Overall, high-order correlations among multiple domains and categories are fully explored so as to better bridge the domain gap. Specifically, we impose Tensor-Low-Rank (TLR) constraint on a tensor obtained by stacking up a group of prototypical similarity matrices, aiming at capturing consistent data structure across different domains. Furthermore, to avoid negative transfer brought by noisy source data, we propose a novel uncertainty-aware weighting strategy to adaptively assign weights to different source domains and samples based on the result of uncertainty estimation. Extensive experiments conducted on public benchmarks demonstrate the superiority of our model in addressing the task of MDA compared to state-of-the-art methods.

  Phase filtering and pixel quality (coherence) estimation is critical in producing Digital Elevation Models (DEMs) from Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar (InSAR) images, as it removes spatial inconsistencies (residues) and immensely improves the subsequent unwrapping. Large amount of InSAR data facilitates Wide Area Monitoring (WAM) over geographical regions. Advances in parallel computing have accelerated Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs), giving them advantages over human performance on visual pattern recognition, which makes CNNs a good choice for WAM. Nevertheless, this research is largely unexplored. We thus propose "GenInSAR", a CNN-based generative model for joint phase filtering and coherence estimation, that directly learns the InSAR data distribution. GenInSAR's unsupervised training on satellite and simulated noisy InSAR images outperforms other five related methods in total residue reduction (over 16.5% better on average) with less over-smoothing/artefacts around branch cuts. GenInSAR's Phase, and Coherence Root-Mean-Squared-Error and Phase Cosine Error have average improvements of 0.54, 0.07, and 0.05 respectively compared to the related methods.

  Transformers and variational autoencoders (VAE) have been extensively employed for symbolic (e.g., MIDI) domain music generation. While the former boast an impressive capability in modeling long sequences, the latter allow users to willingly exert control over different parts (e.g., bars) of the music to be generated. In this paper, we are interested in bringing the two together to construct a single model that exhibits both strengths. The task is split into two steps. First, we equip Transformer decoders with the ability to accept segment-level, time-varying conditions during sequence generation. Subsequently, we combine the developed and tested in-attention decoder with a Transformer encoder, and train the resulting MuseMorphose model with the VAE objective to achieve style transfer of long musical pieces, in which users can specify musical attributes including rhythmic intensity and polyphony (i.e., harmonic fullness) they desire, down to the bar level. Experiments show that MuseMorphose outperforms recurrent neural network (RNN) based baselines on numerous widely-used metrics for style transfer tasks.

  Visual perception is the most critical input for driving decisions. In this study, our aim is to understand relationship between saliency and driving decisions. We present a novel attention-based saliency map prediction model for making braking decisions This approach constructs a holistic model to the driving task and can be extended for other driving decisions like steering and acceleration. The proposed model is a deep neural network model that feeds extracted features from input image to a recurrent neural network with an attention mechanism. Then predicted saliency map is used to make braking decision. We trained and evaluated using driving attention dataset BDD-A, and saliency dataset CAT2000.

  The primary aim of single-image super-resolution is to construct high-resolution (HR) images from corresponding low-resolution (LR) inputs. In previous approaches, which have generally been supervised, the training objective typically measures a pixel-wise average distance between the super-resolved (SR) and HR images. Optimizing such metrics often leads to blurring, especially in high variance (detailed) regions. We propose an alternative formulation of the super-resolution problem based on creating realistic SR images that downscale correctly. We present an algorithm addressing this problem, PULSE (Photo Upsampling via Latent Space Exploration), which generates high-resolution, realistic images at resolutions previously unseen in the literature. It accomplishes this in an entirely self-supervised fashion and is not confined to a specific degradation operator used during training, unlike previous methods (which require supervised training on databases of LR-HR image pairs). Instead of starting with the LR image and slowly adding detail, PULSE traverses the high-resolution natural image manifold, searching for images that downscale to the original LR image. This is formalized through the "downscaling loss," which guides exploration through the latent space of a generative model. By leveraging properties of high-dimensional Gaussians, we restrict the search space to guarantee realistic outputs. PULSE thereby generates super-resolved images that both are realistic and downscale correctly. We show proof of concept of our approach in the domain of face super-resolution (i.e., face hallucination). We also present a discussion of the limitations and biases of the method as currently implemented with an accompanying model card with relevant metrics. Our method outperforms state-of-the-art methods in perceptual quality at higher resolutions and scale factors than previously possible.

  Neural networks have shown tremendous growth in recent years to solve numerous problems. Various types of neural networks have been introduced to deal with different types of problems. However, the main goal of any neural network is to transform the non-linearly separable input data into more linearly separable abstract features using a hierarchy of layers. These layers are combinations of linear and nonlinear functions. The most popular and common non-linearity layers are activation functions (AFs), such as Logistic Sigmoid, Tanh, ReLU, ELU, Swish and Mish. In this paper, a comprehensive overview and survey is presented for AFs in neural networks for deep learning. Different classes of AFs such as Logistic Sigmoid and Tanh based, ReLU based, ELU based, and Learning based are covered. Several characteristics of AFs such as output range, monotonicity, and smoothness are also pointed out. A performance comparison is also performed among 18 state-of-the-art AFs with different networks on different types of data. The insights of AFs are presented to benefit the researchers for doing further research and practitioners to select among different choices. The code used for experimental comparison is released at: \url{https://github.com/shivram1987/ActivationFunctions}.

  Counting humans is an essential part of many people-centric applications. In this paper, we propose CrossCount: an accurate deep-learning-based human count estimator that uses a single WiFi link to estimate the human count in an area of interest. The main idea is to depend on the temporal link-blockage pattern as a discriminant feature that is more robust to wireless channel noise than the signal strength, hence delivering a ubiquitous and accurate human counting system. As part of its design, CrossCount addresses a number of deep learning challenges such as class imbalance and training data augmentation for enhancing the model generalizability. Implementation and evaluation of CrossCount in multiple testbeds show that it can achieve a human counting accuracy to within a maximum of 2 persons 100% of the time. This highlights the promise of CrossCount as a ubiquitous crowd estimator with non-labour-intensive data collection from off-the-shelf devices.

  The rapid advancement of technology in online communication via social media platforms has led to a prolific rise in the spread of misinformation and fake news. Fake news is especially rampant in the current COVID-19 pandemic, leading to people believing in false and potentially harmful claims and stories. Detecting fake news quickly can alleviate the spread of panic, chaos and potential health hazards. We developed a two stage automated pipeline for COVID-19 fake news detection using state of the art machine learning models for natural language processing. The first model leverages a novel fact checking algorithm that retrieves the most relevant facts concerning user claims about particular COVID-19 claims. The second model verifies the level of truth in the claim by computing the textual entailment between the claim and the true facts retrieved from a manually curated COVID-19 dataset. The dataset is based on a publicly available knowledge source consisting of more than 5000 COVID-19 false claims and verified explanations, a subset of which was internally annotated and cross-validated to train and evaluate our models. We evaluate a series of models based on classical text-based features to more contextual Transformer based models and observe that a model pipeline based on BERT and ALBERT for the two stages respectively yields the best results.

  Localizing neuronal activity in the brain, both in time and in space, is a central challenge to advance the understanding of brain function. Because of the inability of any single neuroimaging techniques to cover all aspects at once, there is a growing interest to combine signals from multiple modalities in order to benefit from the advantages of each acquisition method. Due to the complexity and unknown parameterization of any suggested complete model of BOLD response in functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), the development of a reliable ultimate fusion approach remains difficult. But besides the primary goal of superior temporal and spatial resolution, conjoint analysis of data from multiple imaging modalities can alternatively be used to segregate neural information from physiological and acquisition noise. In this paper we suggest a novel methodology which relies on constructing a quantifiable mapping of data from one modality (electroencephalography; EEG) into another (fMRI), called transmodal analysis of neural signals (TRANSfusion). TRANSfusion attempts to map neural data embedded within the EEG signal into its reflection in fMRI data. Assessing the mapping performance on unseen data allows to localize brain areas where a significant portion of the signal could be reliably reconstructed, hence the areas neural activity of which is reflected in both EEG and fMRI data. Consecutive analysis of the learnt model allows to localize areas associated with specific frequency bands of EEG, or areas functionally related (connected or coherent) to any given EEG sensor. We demonstrate the performance of TRANSfusion on artificial and real data from an auditory experiment. We further speculate on possible alternative uses: cross-modal data filtering and EEG-driven interpolation of fMRI signals to obtain arbitrarily high temporal sampling of BOLD.

  Many works in signal processing and learning theory operate under the assumption that the underlying model is simple, e.g. that a signal is approximately $k$-Fourier-sparse or that a distribution can be approximated by a mixture model that has at most $k$ components. However the problem of fitting the parameters of such a model becomes more challenging when the frequencies/components are too close together.   In this work we introduce new methods for sparsifying sums of exponentials and give various algorithmic applications. First we study Fourier-sparse interpolation without a frequency gap, where Chen et al. gave an algorithm for finding an $\epsilon$-approximate solution which uses $k' = \mbox{poly}(k, \log 1/\epsilon)$ frequencies. Second, we study learning Gaussian mixture models in one dimension without a separation condition. Kernel density estimators give an $\epsilon$-approximation that uses $k' = O(k/\epsilon^2)$ components. These methods both output models that are much more complex than what we started out with. We show how to post-process to reduce the number of frequencies/components down to $k' = \widetilde{O}(k)$, which is optimal up to logarithmic factors. Moreover we give applications to model selection. In particular, we give the first algorithms for approximately (and robustly) determining the number of components in a Gaussian mixture model that work without a separation condition.

  In the current paper, we introduce a parametric data-driven model for functional near-infrared spectroscopy that decomposes a signal into a series of independent, rescaled, time-shifted, hemodynamic basis functions. Each decomposed waveform retains relevant biological information about the expected hemodynamic behavior. The model is also presented along with an efficient iterative estimation method to improve the computational speed. Our hemodynamic decomposition model (HDM) extends the canonical model for instances when a) the external stimuli are unknown, or b) when the assumption of a direct relationship between the experimental stimuli and the hemodynamic responses cannot hold. We also argue that the proposed approach can be potentially adopted as a feature transformation method for machine learning purposes. By virtue of applying our devised HDM to a cognitive load classification task on fNIRS signals, we have achieved an accuracy of 86.20%+-2.56% using six channels in the frontal cortex, and 86.34%+-2.81% utilizing only the AFpz channel also located in the frontal area. In comparison, state-of-the-art time-spectral transformations only yield 64.61%+-3.03% and 37.8%+-2.96% under identical experimental settings.

  We introduce a deep, generative autoencoder capable of learning hierarchies of distributed representations from data. Successive deep stochastic hidden layers are equipped with autoregressive connections, which enable the model to be sampled from quickly and exactly via ancestral sampling. We derive an efficient approximate parameter estimation method based on the minimum description length (MDL) principle, which can be seen as maximising a variational lower bound on the log-likelihood, with a feedforward neural network implementing approximate inference. We demonstrate state-of-the-art generative performance on a number of classic data sets: several UCI data sets, MNIST and Atari 2600 games.

  Unsupervised domain adaptation addresses the problem of transferring knowledge from a well-labeled source domain to an unlabeled target domain where the two domains have distinctive data distributions. Thus, the essence of domain adaptation is to mitigate the distribution divergence between the two domains. The state-of-the-art methods practice this very idea by either conducting adversarial training or minimizing a metric which defines the distribution gaps. In this paper, we propose a new domain adaptation method named Adversarial Tight Match (ATM) which enjoys the benefits of both adversarial training and metric learning. Specifically, at first, we propose a novel distance loss, named Maximum Density Divergence (MDD), to quantify the distribution divergence. MDD minimizes the inter-domain divergence ("match" in ATM) and maximizes the intra-class density ("tight" in ATM). Then, to address the equilibrium challenge issue in adversarial domain adaptation, we consider leveraging the proposed MDD into adversarial domain adaptation framework. At last, we tailor the proposed MDD as a practical learning loss and report our ATM. Both empirical evaluation and theoretical analysis are reported to verify the effectiveness of the proposed method. The experimental results on four benchmarks, both classical and large-scale, show that our method is able to achieve new state-of-the-art performance on most evaluations. Codes and datasets used in this paper are available at {\it github.com/lijin118/ATM}.

  We consider the problem of segmenting cell nuclei instances from Hematoxylin and Eosin (H&E) stains with weak supervision. While most recent works focus on improving the segmentation quality, this is usually insufficient for instance segmentation of cell instances clumped together or with a small size. In this work, we propose a two-step post-processing procedure, Split and Expand, that directly improves the conversion of segmentation maps to instances. In the Split step, we split clumps of cells from the segmentation map into individual cell instances with the guidance of cell-center predictions through Gaussian Mixture Model clustering. In the Expand step, we find missing small cells using the cell-center predictions (which tend to capture small cells more consistently as they are trained using reliable point annotations), and utilize Layer-wise Relevance Propagation (LRP) explanation results to expand those cell-center predictions into cell instances. Our Split and Expand post-processing procedure is training-free and is executed at inference-time only. To further improve the performance of our method, a feature re-weighting loss based on LRP is proposed. We test our procedure on the MoNuSeg and TNBC datasets and show that our proposed method provides statistically significant improvements on object-level metrics. Our code will be made available.

  Recent work has demonstrated that neural networks are vulnerable to adversarial examples. To escape from the predicament, many works try to harden the model in various ways, in which adversarial training is an effective way which learns robust feature representation so as to resist adversarial attacks. Meanwhile, the self-supervised learning aims to learn robust and semantic embedding from data itself. With these views, we introduce self-supervised learning to against adversarial examples in this paper. Specifically, the self-supervised representation coupled with k-Nearest Neighbour is proposed for classification. To further strengthen the defense ability, self-supervised adversarial training is proposed, which maximizes the mutual information between the representations of original examples and the corresponding adversarial examples. Experimental results show that the self-supervised representation outperforms its supervised version in respect of robustness and self-supervised adversarial training can further improve the defense ability efficiently.

  In this paper we propose Discretely Indexed flows (DIF) as a new tool for solving variational estimation problems. Roughly speaking, DIF are built as an extension of Normalizing Flows (NF), in which the deterministic transport becomes stochastic, and more precisely discretely indexed. Due to the discrete nature of the underlying additional latent variable, DIF inherit the good computational behavior of NF: they benefit from both a tractable density as well as a straightforward sampling scheme, and can thus be used for the dual problems of Variational Inference (VI) and of Variational density estimation (VDE). On the other hand, DIF can also be understood as an extension of mixture density models, in which the constant mixture weights are replaced by flexible functions. As a consequence, DIF are better suited for capturing distributions with discontinuities, sharp edges and fine details, which is a main advantage of this construction. Finally we propose a methodology for constructiong DIF in practice, and see that DIF can be sequentially cascaded, and cascaded with NF.

  Video streaming services strive to support high-quality videos at higher resolutions and frame rates to improve the quality of experience (QoE). However, high-quality videos consume considerable amounts of energy on mobile devices. This paper proposes NeuSaver, which reduces the power consumption of mobile devices when streaming videos by applying an adaptive frame rate to each video chunk without compromising user experience. NeuSaver generates an optimal policy that determines the appropriate frame rate for each video chunk using reinforcement learning (RL). The RL model automatically learns the policy that maximizes the QoE goals based on previous observations. NeuSaver also uses an asynchronous advantage actor-critic algorithm to reinforce the RL model quickly and robustly. Streaming servers that support NeuSaver preprocesses videos into segments with various frame rates, which is similar to the process of creating videos with multiple bit rates in dynamic adaptive streaming over HTTP. NeuSaver utilizes the commonly used H.264 video codec. We evaluated NeuSaver in various experiments and a user study through four video categories along with the state-of-the-art model. Our experiments showed that NeuSaver effectively reduces the power consumption of mobile devices when streaming video by an average of 16.14% and up to 23.12% while achieving high QoE.

In this work, we investigate the problem of an online trajectory design for an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) in a Federated Learning (FL) setting where several different communities exist, each defined by a unique task to be learned. In this setting, spatially distributed devices belonging to each community collaboratively contribute towards training their community model via wireless links provided by the UAV. Accordingly, the UAV acts as a mobile orchestrator coordinating the transmissions and the learning schedule among the devices in each community, intending to accelerate the learning process of all tasks. We propose a heuristic metric as a proxy for the training performance of the different tasks. Capitalizing on this metric, a surrogate objective is defined which enables us to jointly optimize the UAV trajectory and the scheduling of the devices by employing convex optimization techniques and graph theory. The simulations illustrate the out-performance of our solution when compared to other handpicked static and mobile UAV deployment baselines.

  We analyze the joint probability distribution on the lengths of the vectors of hidden variables in different layers of a fully connected deep network, when the weights and biases are chosen randomly according to Gaussian distributions, and the input is in $\{ -1, 1\}^N$. We show that, if the activation function $\phi$ satisfies a minimal set of assumptions, satisfied by all activation functions that we know that are used in practice, then, as the width of the network gets large, the `length process' converges in probability to a length map that is determined as a simple function of the variances of the random weights and biases, and the activation function $\phi$. We also show that this convergence may fail for $\phi$ that violate our assumptions.

  The deployment of deep neural networks in real-world applications is mostly restricted by their high inference costs. Extensive efforts have been made to improve the accuracy with expert-designed or algorithm-searched architectures. However, the incremental improvement is typically achieved with increasingly more expensive models that only a small portion of input instances really need. Inference with a static architecture that processes all input instances via the same transformation would thus incur unnecessary computational costs. Therefore, customizing the model capacity in an instance-aware manner is much needed for higher inference efficiency. In this paper, we propose Dynamic Routing Networks (DRNets), which support efficient instance-aware inference by routing the input instance to only necessary transformation branches selected from a candidate set of branches for each connection between transformation nodes. The branch selection is dynamically determined via the corresponding branch importance weights, which are first generated from lightweight hypernetworks (RouterNets) and then recalibrated with Gumbel-Softmax before the selection. Extensive experiments show that DRNets can reduce a substantial amount of parameter size and FLOPs during inference with prediction performance comparable to state-of-the-art architectures.

  Second-order information has proven to be very effective in determining the redundancy of neural network weights and activations. Recent paper proposes to use Hessian traces of weights and activations for mixed-precision quantization and achieves state-of-the-art results. However, prior works only focus on selecting bits for each layer while the redundancy of different channels within a layer also differ a lot. This is mainly because the complexity of determining bits for each channel is too high for original methods. Here, we introduce Channel-wise Hessian Aware trace-Weighted Quantization (CW-HAWQ). CW-HAWQ uses Hessian trace to determine the relative sensitivity order of different channels of activations and weights. What's more, CW-HAWQ proposes to use deep Reinforcement learning (DRL) Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient (DDPG)-based agent to find the optimal ratios of different quantization bits and assign bits to channels according to the Hessian trace order. The number of states in CW-HAWQ is much smaller compared with traditional AutoML based mix-precision methods since we only need to search ratios for the quantization bits. Compare CW-HAWQ with state-of-the-art shows that we can achieve better results for multiple networks.

  In this paper, we model nested polar code construction as a Markov decision process (MDP), and tackle it with advanced reinforcement learning (RL) techniques. First, an MDP environment with state, action, and reward is defined in the context of polar coding. Specifically, a state represents the construction of an $(N,K)$ polar code, an action specifies its reduction to an $(N,K-1)$ subcode, and reward is the decoding performance. A neural network architecture consisting of both policy and value networks is proposed to generate actions based on the observed states, aiming at maximizing the overall rewards. A loss function is defined to trade off between exploitation and exploration. To further improve learning efficiency and quality, an `integrated learning' paradigm is proposed. It first employs a genetic algorithm to generate a population of (sub-)optimal polar codes for each $(N,K)$, and then uses them as prior knowledge to refine the policy in RL. Such a paradigm is shown to accelerate the training process, and converge at better performances. Simulation results show that the proposed learning-based polar constructions achieve comparable, or even better, performances than the state of the art under successive cancellation list (SCL) decoders. Last but not least, this is achieved without exploiting any expert knowledge from polar coding theory in the learning algorithms.

  Recently neural networks and multiple instance learning are both attractive topics in Artificial Intelligence related research fields. Deep neural networks have achieved great success in supervised learning problems, and multiple instance learning as a typical weakly-supervised learning method is effective for many applications in computer vision, biometrics, nature language processing, etc. In this paper, we revisit the problem of solving multiple instance learning problems using neural networks. Neural networks are appealing for solving multiple instance learning problem. The multiple instance neural networks perform multiple instance learning in an end-to-end way, which take a bag with various number of instances as input and directly output bag label. All of the parameters in a multiple instance network are able to be optimized via back-propagation. We propose a new multiple instance neural network to learn bag representations, which is different from the existing multiple instance neural networks that focus on estimating instance label. In addition, recent tricks developed in deep learning have been studied in multiple instance networks, we find deep supervision is effective for boosting bag classification accuracy. In the experiments, the proposed multiple instance networks achieve state-of-the-art or competitive performance on several MIL benchmarks. Moreover, it is extremely fast for both testing and training, e.g., it takes only 0.0003 second to predict a bag and a few seconds to train on a MIL datasets on a moderate CPU.

  Predictive models learned from historical data are widely used to help companies and organizations make decisions. However, they may digitally unfairly treat unwanted groups, raising concerns about fairness and discrimination. In this paper, we study the fairness-aware ranking problem which aims to discover discrimination in ranked datasets and reconstruct the fair ranking. Existing methods in fairness-aware ranking are mainly based on statistical parity that cannot measure the true discriminatory effect since discrimination is causal. On the other hand, existing methods in causal-based anti-discrimination learning focus on classification problems and cannot be directly applied to handle the ranked data. To address these limitations, we propose to map the rank position to a continuous score variable that represents the qualification of the candidates. Then, we build a causal graph that consists of both the discrete profile attributes and the continuous score. The path-specific effect technique is extended to the mixed-variable causal graph to identify both direct and indirect discrimination. The relationship between the path-specific effects for the ranked data and those for the binary decision is theoretically analyzed. Finally, algorithms for discovering and removing discrimination from a ranked dataset are developed. Experiments using the real dataset show the effectiveness of our approaches.

  Classic Topic Models are built under the Bag Of Words assumption, in which word position is ignored for simplicity. Besides, symmetric priors are typically used in most applications. In order to easily learn topics with different properties among the same corpus, we propose a new line of work in which the paragraph structure is exploited. Our proposal is based on the following assumption: in many text document corpora there are formal constraints shared across all the collection, e.g. sections. When this assumption is satisfied, some paragraphs may be related to general concepts shared by all documents in the corpus, while others would contain the genuine description of documents. Assuming each paragraph can be semantically more general, specific, or hybrid, we look for ways to measure this, transferring this distinction to topics and being able to learn what we call specific and general topics. Experiments show that this is a proper methodology to highlight certain paragraphs in structured documents at the same time we learn interesting and more diverse topics.

  In sliced networks, the shared tenancy of slices requires adaptive admission control of data flows, based on measurements of network resources. In this paper, we investigate the design of measurement-based admission control schemes, deciding whether a new data flow can be admitted and in this case, on which slice. The objective is to devise a joint measurement and decision strategy that returns a correct decision (e.g., the least loaded slice) with a certain level of confidence while minimizing the measurement cost (the number of measurements made before committing to the decision). We study the design of such strategies for several natural admission criteria specifying what a correct decision is. For each of these criteria, using tools from best arm identification in bandits, we first derive an explicit information-theoretical lower bound on the cost of any algorithm returning the correct decision with fixed confidence. We then devise a joint measurement and decision strategy achieving this theoretical limit. We compare empirically the measurement costs of these strategies, and compare them both to the lower bounds as well as a naive measurement scheme. We find that our algorithm significantly outperforms the naive scheme (by a factor $2-8$).

  This paper presents Wanderer, a model of how autonomous adaptive systems coordinate internal biological needs with moment-by-moment assessments of the probabilities of events in the external world. The extent to which Wanderer moves about or explores its environment reflects the relative activations of two competing motivational sub-systems: one represents the need to acquire energy and it excites exploration, and the other represents the need to avoid predators and it inhibits exploration. The environment contains food, predators, and neutral stimuli. Wanderer responds to these events in a way that is adaptive in the short turn, and reassesses the probabilities of these events so that it can modify its long term behaviour appropriately. When food appears, Wanderer be-comes satiated and exploration temporarily decreases. When a predator appears, Wanderer both decreases exploration in the short term, and becomes more "cautious" about exploring in the future. Wanderer also forms associations between neutral features and salient ones (food and predators) when they are present at the same time, and uses these associations to guide its behaviour.

  Probabilistic hierarchical time-series forecasting is an important variant of time-series forecasting, where the goal is to model and forecast multivariate time-series that have underlying hierarchical relations. Most methods focus on point predictions and do not provide well-calibrated probabilistic forecasts distributions. Recent state-of-art probabilistic forecasting methods also impose hierarchical relations on point predictions and samples of distribution which does not account for coherency of forecast distributions. Previous works also silently assume that datasets are always consistent with given hierarchical relations and do not adapt to real-world datasets that show deviation from this assumption. We close both these gaps and propose PROFHIT, which is a fully probabilistic hierarchical forecasting model that jointly models forecast distribution of entire hierarchy. PROFHIT uses a flexible probabilistic Bayesian approach and introduces a novel Distributional Coherency regularization to learn from hierarchical relations for entire forecast distribution that enables robust and calibrated forecasts as well as adapt to datasets of varying hierarchical consistency. On evaluating PROFHIT over wide range of datasets, we observed 41-88% better performance in accuracy and calibration. Due to modeling the coherency over full distribution, we observed that PROFHIT can robustly provide reliable forecasts even if up to 10% of input time-series data is missing where other methods' performance severely degrade by over 70%.

  The ability to compute an accurate reward function is essential for optimising a dialogue policy via reinforcement learning. In real-world applications, using explicit user feedback as the reward signal is often unreliable and costly to collect. This problem can be mitigated if the user's intent is known in advance or data is available to pre-train a task success predictor off-line. In practice neither of these apply for most real world applications. Here we propose an on-line learning framework whereby the dialogue policy is jointly trained alongside the reward model via active learning with a Gaussian process model. This Gaussian process operates on a continuous space dialogue representation generated in an unsupervised fashion using a recurrent neural network encoder-decoder. The experimental results demonstrate that the proposed framework is able to significantly reduce data annotation costs and mitigate noisy user feedback in dialogue policy learning.

  Efficient prediction of internet traffic is an essential part of Self Organizing Network (SON) for ensuring proactive management. There are many existing solutions for internet traffic prediction with higher accuracy using deep learning. But designing individual predictive models for each service provider in the network is challenging due to data heterogeneity, scarcity, and abnormality. Moreover, the performance of the deep sequence model in network traffic prediction with limited training data has not been studied extensively in the current works. In this paper, we investigated and evaluated the performance of the deep transfer learning technique in traffic prediction with inadequate historical data leveraging the knowledge of our pre-trained model. First, we used a comparatively larger real-world traffic dataset for source domain prediction based on five different deep sequence models: Recurrent Neural Network (RNN), Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM), LSTM Encoder-Decoder (LSTM_En_De), LSTM_En_De with Attention layer (LSTM_En_De_Atn), and Gated Recurrent Unit (GRU). Then, two best-performing models, LSTM_En_De and LSTM_En_De_Atn, from the source domain with an accuracy of 96.06% and 96.05% are considered for the target domain prediction. Finally, four smaller traffic datasets collected for four particular sources and destination pairs are used in the target domain to compare the performance of the standard learning and transfer learning in terms of accuracy and execution time. According to our experimental result, transfer learning helps to reduce the execution time for most cases, while the model's accuracy is improved in transfer learning with a larger training session.

  Deep learning approaches to semantic parsing require a large amount of labeled data, but annotating complex logical forms is costly. Here, we propose Syntactic Question Abstraction and Retrieval (SQAR), a method to build a neural semantic parser that translates a natural language (NL) query to a SQL logical form (LF) with less than 1,000 annotated examples. SQAR first retrieves a logical pattern from the train data by computing the similarity between NL queries and then grounds a lexical information on the retrieved pattern in order to generate the final LF. We validate SQAR by training models using various small subsets of WikiSQL train data achieving up to 4.9% higher LF accuracy compared to the previous state-of-the-art models on WikiSQL test set. We also show that by using query-similarity to retrieve logical pattern, SQAR can leverage a paraphrasing dataset achieving up to 5.9% higher LF accuracy compared to the case where SQAR is trained by using only WikiSQL data. In contrast to a simple pattern classification approach, SQAR can generate unseen logical patterns upon the addition of new examples without re-training the model. We also discuss an ideal way to create cost efficient and robust train datasets when the data distribution can be approximated under a data-hungry setting.

  We develop a new method to detect anomalies within time series, which is essential in many application domains, reaching from self-driving cars, finance, and marketing to medical diagnosis and epidemiology. The method is based on self-supervised deep learning that has played a key role in facilitating deep anomaly detection on images, where powerful image transformations are available. However, such transformations are widely unavailable for time series. Addressing this, we develop Local Neural Transformations(LNT), a method learning local transformations of time series from data. The method produces an anomaly score for each time step and thus can be used to detect anomalies within time series. We prove in a theoretical analysis that our novel training objective is more suitable for transformation learning than previous deep Anomaly detection(AD) methods. Our experiments demonstrate that LNT can find anomalies in speech segments from the LibriSpeech data set and better detect interruptions to cyber-physical systems than previous work. Visualization of the learned transformations gives insight into the type of transformations that LNT learns.

  Extracting phenotypes from clinical text has been shown to be useful for a variety of clinical use cases such as identifying patients with rare diseases. However, reasoning with numerical values remains challenging for phenotyping in clinical text, for example, temperature 102F representing Fever. Current state-of-the-art phenotyping models are able to detect general phenotypes, but perform poorly when they detect phenotypes requiring numerical reasoning. We present a novel unsupervised methodology leveraging external knowledge and contextualized word embeddings from ClinicalBERT for numerical reasoning in a variety of phenotypic contexts. Comparing against unsupervised benchmarks, it shows a substantial performance improvement with absolute gains on generalized Recall and F1 scores up to 79% and 71%, respectively. In the supervised setting, it also surpasses the performance of alternative approaches with absolute gains on generalized Recall and F1 scores up to 70% and 44%, respectively.

  Speech enhancement is a crucial task for several applications. Among the most explored techniques are the Wiener filter and the LogMMSE, but approaches exploring deep learning adapted to this task, such as SEGAN, have presented relevant results. This study compared the performance of the mentioned techniques in 85 noise conditions regarding quality, intelligibility, and distortion; and concluded that classical techniques continue to exhibit superior results for most scenarios, but, in severe noise scenarios, SEGAN performed better and with lower variance.

  Despite the recent successes of reinforcement learning in games and robotics, it is yet to become broadly practical. Sample efficiency and unreliable performance in rare but challenging scenarios are two of the major obstacles. Drawing inspiration from the effectiveness of deliberate practice for achieving expert-level human performance, we propose a new adversarial sampling approach guided by a failure predictor named "CoachNet". CoachNet is trained online along with the agent to predict the probability of failure. This probability is then used in a stochastic sampling process to guide the agent to more challenging episodes. This way, instead of wasting time on scenarios that the agent has already mastered, training is focused on the agent's "weak spots". We present the design of CoachNet, explain its underlying principles, and empirically demonstrate its effectiveness in improving sample efficiency and test-time robustness in common continuous control tasks.

  Deploying federated learning (FL) over wireless networks with resource-constrained devices requires balancing between accuracy, energy efficiency, and precision. Prior art on FL often requires devices to train deep neural networks (DNNs) using a 32-bit precision level for data representation to improve accuracy. However, such algorithms are impractical for resource-constrained devices since DNNs could require execution of millions of operations. Thus, training DNNs with a high precision level incurs a high energy cost for FL. In this paper, a quantized FL framework, that represents data with a finite level of precision in both local training and uplink transmission, is proposed. Here, the finite level of precision is captured through the use of quantized neural networks (QNNs) that quantize weights and activations in fixed-precision format. In the considered FL model, each device trains its QNN and transmits a quantized training result to the base station. Energy models for the local training and the transmission with the quantization are rigorously derived. An energy minimization problem is formulated with respect to the level of precision while ensuring convergence. To solve the problem, we first analytically derive the FL convergence rate and use a line search method. Simulation results show that our FL framework can reduce energy consumption by up to 53% compared to a standard FL model. The results also shed light on the tradeoff between precision, energy, and accuracy in FL over wireless networks.

  Feature selection is important step in machine learning since it has shown to improve prediction accuracy while depressing the curse of dimensionality of high dimensional data. The neural networks have experienced tremendous success in solving many nonlinear learning problems. Here, we propose new neural-network based feature selection approach that introduces two constrains, the satisfying of which leads to sparse FS layer. We have performed extensive experiments on synthetic and real world data to evaluate performance of the proposed FS. In experiments we focus on the high dimension, low sample size data since those represent the main challenge for feature selection. The results confirm that proposed Feature Selection Based on Sparse Neural Network Layer with Normalizing Constraints (SNEL-FS) is able to select the important features and yields superior performance compared to other conventional FS methods.

  Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) methods are widely used in machine learning. One of the major problems with MCMC is the question of how to design chains that mix fast over the whole state space; in particular, how to select the parameters of an MCMC algorithm. Here we take a different approach and, similarly to parallel MCMC methods, instead of trying to find a single chain that samples from the whole distribution, we combine samples from several chains run in parallel, each exploring only parts of the state space (e.g., a few modes only). The chains are prioritized based on kernel Stein discrepancy, which provides a good measure of performance locally. The samples from the independent chains are combined using a novel technique for estimating the probability of different regions of the sample space. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed algorithm may provide significant speedups in different sampling problems. Most importantly, when combined with the state-of-the-art NUTS algorithm as the base MCMC sampler, our method remained competitive with NUTS on sampling from unimodal distributions, while significantly outperforming state-of-the-art competitors on synthetic multimodal problems as well as on a challenging sensor localization task.

  Training neural network often uses a machine learning framework such as TensorFlow and Caffe2. These frameworks employ a dataflow model where the NN training is modeled as a directed graph composed of a set of nodes. Operations in neural network training are typically implemented by the frameworks as primitives and represented as nodes in the dataflow graph. Training NN models in a dataflow-based machine learning framework involves a large number of fine-grained operations. Those operations have diverse memory access patterns and computation intensity. How to manage and schedule those operations is challenging, because we have to decide the number of threads to run each operation (concurrency control) and schedule those operations for good hardware utilization and system throughput.   In this paper, we extend an existing runtime system (the TensorFlow runtime) to enable automatic concurrency control and scheduling of operations. We explore performance modeling to predict the performance of operations with various thread-level parallelism. Our performance model is highly accurate and lightweight. Leveraging the performance model, our runtime system employs a set of scheduling strategies that co-run operations to improve hardware utilization and system throughput. Our runtime system demonstrates a big performance benefit. Comparing with using the recommended configurations for concurrency control and operation scheduling in TensorFlow, our approach achieves 33% performance (execution time) improvement on average (up to 49%) for three neural network models, and achieves high performance closing to the optimal one manually obtained by the user.

  The development of Intelligent Cyber-Physical Systems (ICPSs) in virtual network environment is facing severe challenges. On the one hand, the Internet of things (IoT) based on ICPSs construction needs a large amount of reasonable network resources support. On the other hand, ICPSs are facing severe network security problems. The integration of ICPSs and network virtualization (NV) can provide more efficient network resource support and security guarantees for IoT users. Based on the above two problems faced by ICPSs, we propose a virtual network embedded (VNE) algorithm with computing, storage resources and security constraints to ensure the rationality and security of resource allocation in ICPSs. In particular, we use reinforcement learning (RL) method as a means to improve algorithm performance. We extract the important attribute characteristics of underlying network as the training environment of RL agent. Agent can derive the optimal node embedding strategy through training, so as to meet the requirements of ICPSs for resource management and security. The embedding of virtual links is based on the breadth first search (BFS) strategy. Therefore, this is a comprehensive two-stage RL-VNE algorithm considering the constraints of computing, storage and security three-dimensional resources. Finally, we design a large number of simulation experiments from the perspective of typical indicators of VNE algorithms. The experimental results effectively illustrate the effectiveness of the algorithm in the application of ICPSs.

  A rapidly evolving situation such as the COVID-19 pandemic is a significant challenge for AI/ML models because of its unpredictability. %The most reliable indicator of the pandemic spreading has been the number of test positive cases. However, the tests are both incomplete (due to untested asymptomatic cases) and late (due the lag from the initial contact event, worsening symptoms, and test results). Social media can complement physical test data due to faster and higher coverage, but they present a different challenge: significant amounts of noise, misinformation and disinformation. We believe that social media can become good indicators of pandemic, provided two conditions are met. The first (True Novelty) is the capture of new, previously unknown, information from unpredictably evolving situations. The second (Fact vs. Fiction) is the distinction of verifiable facts from misinformation and disinformation. Social media information that satisfy those two conditions are called live knowledge. We apply evidence-based knowledge acquisition (EBKA) approach to collect, filter, and update live knowledge through the integration of social media sources with authoritative sources. Although limited in quantity, the reliable training data from authoritative sources enable the filtering of misinformation as well as capturing truly new information. We describe the EDNA/LITMUS tools that implement EBKA, integrating social media such as Twitter and Facebook with authoritative sources such as WHO and CDC, creating and updating live knowledge on the COVID-19 pandemic.

  Motivation: How do we integratively analyze large-scale multi-platform genomic data that are high dimensional and sparse? Furthermore, how can we incorporate prior knowledge, such as the association between genes, in the analysis systematically? Method: To solve this problem, we propose a Scalable Network Constrained Tucker decomposition method we call SNeCT. SNeCT adopts parallel stochastic gradient descent approach on the proposed parallelizable network constrained optimization function. SNeCT decomposition is applied to tensor constructed from large scale multi-platform multi-cohort cancer data, PanCan12, constrained on a network built from PathwayCommons database. Results: The decomposed factor matrices are applied to stratify cancers, to search for top-k similar patients, and to illustrate how the matrices can be used for personalized interpretation. In the stratification test, combined twelve-cohort data is clustered to form thirteen subclasses. The thirteen subclasses have a high correlation to tissue of origin in addition to other interesting observations, such as clear separation of OV cancers to two groups, and high clinical correlation within subclusters formed in cohorts BRCA and UCEC. In the top-k search, a new patient's genomic profile is generated and searched against existing patients based on the factor matrices. The similarity of the top-k patient to the query is high for 23 clinical features, including estrogen/progesterone receptor statuses of BRCA patients with average precision value ranges from 0.72 to 0.86 and from 0.68 to 0.86, respectively. We also provide an illustration of how the factor matrices can be used for interpretable personalized analysis of each patient.

  Finding sustainable and novel solutions to predict city-wide mobility behaviour is an ever-growing problem given increased urban complexity and growing populations. This paper seeks to address this by describing a traffic frame prediction approach that uses Convolutional LSTMs to create a Temporal Autoencoder with U-Net style skip-connections that marry together recurrent and traditional computer vision techniques to capture spatio-temporal dependencies at different scales without losing topological details of a given city. Utilisation of Cyclical Learning Rates is also presented, improving training efficiency by achieving lower loss scores in fewer epochs than standard approaches.

  We address the problem of automatic generation of features for value function approximation. Bellman Error Basis Functions (BEBFs) have been shown to improve the error of policy evaluation with function approximation, with a convergence rate similar to that of value iteration. We propose a simple, fast and robust algorithm based on random projections to generate BEBFs for sparse feature spaces. We provide a finite sample analysis of the proposed method, and prove that projections logarithmic in the dimension of the original space are enough to guarantee contraction in the error. Empirical results demonstrate the strength of this method.

  Instance segmentation with neural networks is an essential task in environment perception. In many works, it has been observed that neural networks can predict false positive instances with high confidence values and true positives with low ones. Thus, it is important to accurately model the uncertainties of neural networks in order to prevent safety issues and foster interpretability. In applications such as automated driving, the reliability of neural networks is of highest interest. In this paper, we present a time-dynamic approach to model uncertainties of instance segmentation networks and apply this to the detection of false positives as well as the estimation of prediction quality. The availability of image sequences in online applications allows for tracking instances over multiple frames. Based on an instances history of shape and uncertainty information, we construct temporal instance-wise aggregated metrics. The latter are used as input to post-processing models that estimate the prediction quality in terms of instance-wise intersection over union. The proposed method only requires a readily trained neural network (that may operate on single frames) and video sequence input. In our experiments, we further demonstrate the use of the proposed method by replacing the traditional score value from object detection and thereby improving the overall performance of the instance segmentation network.

  Conservation laws are considered to be fundamental laws of nature. It has broad applications in many fields, including physics, chemistry, biology, geology, and engineering. Solving the differential equations associated with conservation laws is a major branch in computational mathematics. The recent success of machine learning, especially deep learning in areas such as computer vision and natural language processing, has attracted a lot of attention from the community of computational mathematics and inspired many intriguing works in combining machine learning with traditional methods. In this paper, we are the first to view numerical PDE solvers as an MDP and to use (deep) RL to learn new solvers. As proof of concept, we focus on 1-dimensional scalar conservation laws. We deploy the machinery of deep reinforcement learning to train a policy network that can decide on how the numerical solutions should be approximated in a sequential and spatial-temporal adaptive manner. We will show that the problem of solving conservation laws can be naturally viewed as a sequential decision-making process, and the numerical schemes learned in such a way can easily enforce long-term accuracy. Furthermore, the learned policy network is carefully designed to determine a good local discrete approximation based on the current state of the solution, which essentially makes the proposed method a meta-learning approach. In other words, the proposed method is capable of learning how to discretize for a given situation mimicking human experts. Finally, we will provide details on how the policy network is trained, how well it performs compared with some state-of-the-art numerical solvers such as WENO schemes, and supervised learning based approach L3D and PINN, and how well it generalizes.

  Many typical applications of object detection operate within a prescribed false-positive range. In this situation the performance of a detector should be assessed on the basis of the area under the ROC curve over that range, rather than over the full curve, as the performance outside the range is irrelevant. This measure is labelled as the partial area under the ROC curve (pAUC). We propose a novel ensemble learning method which achieves a maximal detection rate at a user-defined range of false positive rates by directly optimizing the partial AUC using structured learning.   In order to achieve a high object detection performance, we propose a new approach to extract low-level visual features based on spatial pooling. Incorporating spatial pooling improves the translational invariance and thus the robustness of the detection process. Experimental results on both synthetic and real-world data sets demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach, and we show that it is possible to train state-of-the-art pedestrian detectors using the proposed structured ensemble learning method with spatially pooled features. The result is the current best reported performance on the Caltech-USA pedestrian detection dataset.

  Unsupervised clustering algorithms for vectors has been widely used in the area of machine learning. Many applications, including the biological data we studied in this paper, contain some boundary datapoints which show combination properties of two underlying clusters and could lower the performance of the traditional clustering algorithms. We develop a confident clustering method aiming to diminish the influence of these datapoints and improve the clustering results. Concretely, for a list of datapoints, we give two clustering results. The first-round clustering attempts to classify only pure vectors with high confidence. Based on it, we classify more vectors with less confidence in the second round. We validate our algorithm on single-cell RNA-seq data, which is a powerful and widely used tool in biology area. Our confident clustering shows a high accuracy on our tested datasets. In addition, unlike traditional clustering methods in single-cell analysis, the confident clustering shows high stability under different choices of parameters.

  The area of Handwritten Signature Verification has been broadly researched in the last decades, but remains an open research problem. In offline (static) signature verification, the dynamic information of the signature writing process is lost, and it is difficult to design good feature extractors that can distinguish genuine signatures and skilled forgeries. This verification task is even harder in writer independent scenarios which is undeniably fiscal for realistic cases. In this paper, we have proposed an Ensemble model for offline writer, independent signature verification task with Deep learning. We have used two CNNs for feature extraction, after that RGBT for classification & Stacking to generate final prediction vector. We have done extensive experiments on various datasets from various sources to maintain a variance in the dataset. We have achieved the state of the art performance on various datasets.

  Unsupervised models can provide supplementary soft constraints to help classify new target data under the assumption that similar objects in the target set are more likely to share the same class label. Such models can also help detect possible differences between training and target distributions, which is useful in applications where concept drift may take place. This paper describes a Bayesian framework that takes as input class labels from existing classifiers (designed based on labeled data from the source domain), as well as cluster labels from a cluster ensemble operating solely on the target data to be classified, and yields a consensus labeling of the target data. This framework is particularly useful when the statistics of the target data drift or change from those of the training data. We also show that the proposed framework is privacy-aware and allows performing distributed learning when data/models have sharing restrictions. Experiments show that our framework can yield superior results to those provided by applying classifier ensembles only.

  Simulation of fluid flow in porous media has many applications, from the micro-scale (cell membranes, filters, rocks) to macro-scale (groundwater, hydrocarbon reservoirs, and geothermal) and beyond. Direct simulation of flow in porous media requires significant computational resources to solve within reasonable timeframes. An integrated method combining predictions of fluid flow (fast, limited accuracy) with direct flow simulation (slow, high accuracy) is outlined. In the tortuous flow paths of porous media, Deep Learning techniques based on Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) are shown to give an accurate estimate of the steady state velocity fields (in all axes), and by extension, the macro-scale permeability. This estimate can be used as-is, or as initial conditions in direct simulation to reach a fully accurate result in a fraction of the compute time. A Gated U-Net Convolutional Neural Network is trained on a datasets of 2D and 3D porous media generated by correlated fields, with their steady state velocity fields calculated from direct LBM simulation. Sensitivity analysis indicates that network accuracy is dependent on (1) the tortuosity of the domain, (2) the size of convolution filters, (3) the use of distance maps as input, (4) the use of mass conservation loss functions. Permeability estimation from these predicted fields reaches over 90\% accuracy for 80\% of cases. It is further shown that these velocity fields are error prone when used for solute transport simulation. Using the predicted velocity fields as initial conditions is shown to accelerate direct flow simulation to physically true steady state conditions an order of magnitude less compute time. Using Deep Learning predictions (or potentially any other approximation method) to accelerate flow simulation to steady state in complex pore structures shows promise as a technique push the boundaries fluid flow modelling.

This paper presents a novel approach that supports natural language voice instructions to guide deep reinforcement learning (DRL) algorithms when training self-driving cars. DRL methods are popular approaches for autonomous vehicle (AV) agents. However, most existing methods are sample- and time-inefficient and lack a natural communication channel with the human expert. In this paper, how new human drivers learn from human coaches motivates us to study new ways of human-in-the-loop learning and a more natural and approachable training interface for the agents. We propose incorporating natural language voice instructions (NLI) in model-based deep reinforcement learning to train self-driving cars. We evaluate the proposed method together with a few state-of-the-art DRL methods in the CARLA simulator. The results show that NLI can help ease the training process and significantly boost the agents' learning speed.

  Cyber-physical systems (CPS) and Internet-of-Things (IoT) devices are increasingly being deployed across multiple functionalities, ranging from healthcare devices and wearables to critical infrastructures, e.g., nuclear power plants, autonomous vehicles, smart cities, and smart homes. These devices are inherently not secure across their comprehensive software, hardware, and network stacks, thus presenting a large attack surface that can be exploited by hackers. In this article, we present an innovative technique for detecting unknown system vulnerabilities, managing these vulnerabilities, and improving incident response when such vulnerabilities are exploited. The novelty of this approach lies in extracting intelligence from known real-world CPS/IoT attacks, representing them in the form of regular expressions, and employing machine learning (ML) techniques on this ensemble of regular expressions to generate new attack vectors and security vulnerabilities. Our results show that 10 new attack vectors and 122 new vulnerability exploits can be successfully generated that have the potential to exploit a CPS or an IoT ecosystem. The ML methodology achieves an accuracy of 97.4% and enables us to predict these attacks efficiently with an 87.2% reduction in the search space. We demonstrate the application of our method to the hacking of the in-vehicle network of a connected car. To defend against the known attacks and possible novel exploits, we discuss a defense-in-depth mechanism for various classes of attacks and the classification of data targeted by such attacks. This defense mechanism optimizes the cost of security measures based on the sensitivity of the protected resource, thus incentivizing its adoption in real-world CPS/IoT by cybersecurity practitioners.

  Current visual question answering (VQA) tasks mainly consider answering human-annotated questions for natural images. However, aside from natural images, abstract diagrams with semantic richness are still understudied in visual understanding and reasoning research. In this work, we introduce a new challenge of Icon Question Answering (IconQA) with the goal of answering a question in an icon image context. We release IconQA, a large-scale dataset that consists of 107,439 questions and three sub-tasks: multi-image-choice, multi-text-choice, and filling-in-the-blank. The IconQA dataset is inspired by real-world diagram word problems that highlight the importance of abstract diagram understanding and comprehensive cognitive reasoning. Thus, IconQA requires not only perception skills like object recognition and text understanding, but also diverse cognitive reasoning skills, such as geometric reasoning, commonsense reasoning, and arithmetic reasoning. To facilitate potential IconQA models to learn semantic representations for icon images, we further release an icon dataset Icon645 which contains 645,687 colored icons on 377 classes. We conduct extensive user studies and blind experiments and reproduce a wide range of advanced VQA methods to benchmark the IconQA task. Also, we develop a strong IconQA baseline Patch-TRM that applies a pyramid cross-modal Transformer with input diagram embeddings pre-trained on the icon dataset. IconQA and Icon645 are available at https://iconqa.github.io.

  Development of the new methods of surface water observation is crucial in the perspective of increasingly frequent extreme hydrological events related to global warming and increasing demand for water. Orthophotos and digital surface models (DSMs) obtained using UAV photogrammetry can be used to determine the Water Surface Elevation (WSE) of a river. However, this task is difficult due to disturbances of the water surface on DSMs caused by limitations of photogrammetric algorithms. In this study, machine learning was used to extract a WSE value from disturbed photogrammetric data. A brand new dataset has been prepared specifically for this purpose by hydrology and photogrammetry experts. The new method is an important step toward automating water surface level measurements with high spatial and temporal resolution. Such data can be used to validate and calibrate of hydrological, hydraulic and hydrodynamic models making hydrological forecasts more accurate, in particular predicting extreme and dangerous events such as floods or droughts. For our knowledge this is the first approach in which dataset was created for this purpose and deep learning models were used for this task. Additionally, neuroevolution algorithm was set to explore different architectures to find local optimal models and non-gradient search was performed to fine-tune the model parameters. The achieved results have better accuracy compared to manual methods of determining WSE from photogrammetric DSMs.

  While recent NAS algorithms are thousands of times faster than the pioneering works, it is often overlooked that they use fewer candidate operations, resulting in a significantly smaller search space. We present PR-DARTS, a NAS algorithm that discovers strong network configurations in a much larger search space and a single day. A small candidate operation pool is used, from which candidates are progressively pruned and replaced with better performing ones. Experiments on CIFAR-10 and CIFAR-100 achieve 2.51% and 15.53% test error, respectively, despite searching in a space where each cell has 150 times as many possible configurations than in the DARTS baseline. Code is available at https://github.com/cogsys-tuebingen/prdarts

  We present a general-purpose method to train Markov chain Monte Carlo kernels, parameterized by deep neural networks, that converge and mix quickly to their target distribution. Our method generalizes Hamiltonian Monte Carlo and is trained to maximize expected squared jumped distance, a proxy for mixing speed. We demonstrate large empirical gains on a collection of simple but challenging distributions, for instance achieving a 106x improvement in effective sample size in one case, and mixing when standard HMC makes no measurable progress in a second. Finally, we show quantitative and qualitative gains on a real-world task: latent-variable generative modeling. We release an open source TensorFlow implementation of the algorithm.

  fMRI semantic category understanding using linguistic encoding models attempt to learn a forward mapping that relates stimuli to the corresponding brain activation. Classical encoding models use linear multi-variate methods to predict the brain activation (all voxels) given the stimulus. However, these methods essentially assume multiple regions as one large uniform region or several independent regions, ignoring connections among them. In this paper, we present a mixture of experts-based model where a group of experts captures brain activity patterns related to particular regions of interest (ROI) and also show the discrimination across different experts. The model is trained word stimuli encoded as 25-dimensional feature vectors as input and the corresponding brain responses as output. Given a new word (25-dimensional feature vector), it predicts the entire brain activation as the linear combination of multiple experts brain activations. We argue that each expert learns a certain region of brain activations corresponding to its category of words, which solves the problem of identifying the regions with a simple encoding model. We showcase that proposed mixture of experts-based model indeed learns region-based experts to predict the brain activations with high spatial accuracy.

  The sparsely-gated Mixture of Experts (MoE) can magnify a network capacity with a little computational complexity. In this work, we investigate how multi-lingual Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) networks can be scaled up with a simple routing algorithm in order to achieve better accuracy. More specifically, we apply the sparsely-gated MoE technique to two types of networks: Sequence-to-Sequence Transformer (S2S-T) and Transformer Transducer (T-T). We demonstrate through a set of ASR experiments on multiple language data that the MoE networks can reduce the relative word error rates by 16.3% and 4.6% with the S2S-T and T-T, respectively. Moreover, we thoroughly investigate the effect of the MoE on the T-T architecture in various conditions: streaming mode, non-streaming mode, the use of language ID and the label decoder with the MoE.

  Scaling methods have long been utilized to simplify and cluster high-dimensional data. However, the latent spaces derived from these methods are sometimes uninformative or unable to identify significant differences in the data. To tackle this common issue, we adopt an emerging analysis approach called contrastive learning. We contribute to this emerging field by extending its ideas to multiple correspondence analysis (MCA) in order to enable an analysis of data often encountered by social scientists -- namely binary, ordinal, and nominal variables. We demonstrate the utility of contrastive MCA (cMCA) by analyzing three different surveys of voters in Europe, Japan, and the United States. Our results suggest that, first, cMCA can identify substantively important dimensions and divisions among (sub)groups that are overlooked by traditional methods; second, for certain cases, cMCA can still derive latent traits that generalize across and apply to multiple groups in the dataset; finally, when data is high-dimensional and unstructured, cMCA provides objective heuristics, above and beyond the standard results, enabling more complex subgroup analysis.

  We propose an end-to-end model to predict drug-drug interactions (DDIs) by employing graph-augmented convolutional networks. And this is implemented by combining graph CNN with an attentive pooling network to extract structural relations between drug pairs and make DDI predictions. The experiment results suggest a desirable performance achieving ROC at 0.988, F1-score at 0.956, and AUPR at 0.986. Besides, the model can tell how the two DDI drugs interact structurally by varying colored atoms. And this may be helpful for drug design during drug discovery.

  For nonconvex optimization in machine learning, this article proves that every local minimum achieves the globally optimal value of the perturbable gradient basis model at any differentiable point. As a result, nonconvex machine learning is theoretically as supported as convex machine learning with a handcrafted basis in terms of the loss at differentiable local minima, except in the case when a preference is given to the handcrafted basis over the perturbable gradient basis. The proofs of these results are derived under mild assumptions. Accordingly, the proven results are directly applicable to many machine learning models, including practical deep neural networks, without any modification of practical methods. Furthermore, as special cases of our general results, this article improves or complements several state-of-the-art theoretical results on deep neural networks, deep residual networks, and overparameterized deep neural networks with a unified proof technique and novel geometric insights. A special case of our results also contributes to the theoretical foundation of representation learning.

  In the real world, data streams are ubiquitous -- think of network traffic or sensor data. Mining patterns, e.g., outliers or clusters, from such data must take place in real time. This is challenging because (1) streams often have high dimensionality, and (2) the data characteristics may change over time. Existing approaches tend to focus on only one aspect, either high dimensionality or the specifics of the streaming setting. For static data, a common approach to deal with high dimensionality -- known as subspace search -- extracts low-dimensional, `interesting' projections (subspaces), in which patterns are easier to find. In this paper, we address both Challenge (1) and (2) by generalising subspace search to data streams. Our approach, Streaming Greedy Maximum Random Deviation (SGMRD), monitors interesting subspaces in high-dimensional data streams. It leverages novel multivariate dependency estimators and monitoring techniques based on bandit theory. We show that the benefits of SGMRD are twofold: (i) It monitors subspaces efficiently, and (ii) this improves the results of downstream data mining tasks, such as outlier detection. Our experiments, performed against synthetic and real-world data, demonstrate that SGMRD outperforms its competitors by a large margin.

  Performing Reinforcement Learning in sparse rewards settings, with very little prior knowledge, is a challenging problem since there is no signal to properly guide the learning process. In such situations, a good search strategy is fundamental. At the same time, not having to adapt the algorithm to every single problem is very desirable. Here we introduce TAXONS, a Task Agnostic eXploration of Outcome spaces through Novelty and Surprise algorithm. Based on a population-based divergent-search approach, it learns a set of diverse policies directly from high-dimensional observations, without any task-specific information. TAXONS builds a repertoire of policies while training an autoencoder on the high-dimensional observation of the final state of the system to build a low-dimensional outcome space. The learned outcome space, combined with the reconstruction error, is used to drive the search for new policies. Results show that TAXONS can find a diverse set of controllers, covering a good part of the ground-truth outcome space, while having no information about such space.

  Non-negative matrix factorization is a basic tool for decomposing data into the feature and weight matrices under non-negativity constraints, and in practice is often solved in the alternating minimization framework. However, it is unclear whether such algorithms can recover the ground-truth feature matrix when the weights for different features are highly correlated, which is common in applications. This paper proposes a simple and natural alternating gradient descent based algorithm, and shows that with a mild initialization it provably recovers the ground-truth in the presence of strong correlations. In most interesting cases, the correlation can be in the same order as the highest possible. Our analysis also reveals its several favorable features including robustness to noise. We complement our theoretical results with empirical studies on semi-synthetic datasets, demonstrating its advantage over several popular methods in recovering the ground-truth.

  A private learner is an algorithm that given a sample of labeled individual examples outputs a generalizing hypothesis while preserving the privacy of each individual. In 2008, Kasiviswanathan et al. (FOCS 2008) gave a generic construction of private learners, in which the sample complexity is (generally) higher than what is needed for non-private learners. This gap in the sample complexity was then further studied in several followup papers, showing that (at least in some cases) this gap is unavoidable. Moreover, those papers considered ways to overcome the gap, by relaxing either the privacy or the learning guarantees of the learner.   We suggest an alternative approach, inspired by the (non-private) models of semi-supervised learning and active-learning, where the focus is on the sample complexity of labeled examples whereas unlabeled examples are of a significantly lower cost. We consider private semi-supervised learners that operate on a random sample, where only a (hopefully small) portion of this sample is labeled. The learners have no control over which of the sample elements are labeled. Our main result is that the labeled sample complexity of private learners is characterized by the VC dimension.   We present two generic constructions of private semi-supervised learners. The first construction is of learners where the labeled sample complexity is proportional to the VC dimension of the concept class, however, the unlabeled sample complexity of the algorithm is as big as the representation length of domain elements. Our second construction presents a new technique for decreasing the labeled sample complexity of a given private learner, while roughly maintaining its unlabeled sample complexity. In addition, we show that in some settings the labeled sample complexity does not depend on the privacy parameters of the learner.

  To evaluate the robustness gain of Bayesian neural networks on image classification tasks, we perform input perturbations, and adversarial attacks to the state-of-the-art Bayesian neural networks, with a benchmark CNN model as reference. The attacks are selected to simulate signal interference and cyberattacks towards CNN-based machine learning systems. The result shows that a Bayesian neural network achieves significantly higher robustness against adversarial attacks generated against a deterministic neural network model, without adversarial training. The Bayesian posterior can act as the safety precursor of ongoing malicious activities. Furthermore, we show that the stochastic classifier after the deterministic CNN extractor has sufficient robustness enhancement rather than a stochastic feature extractor before the stochastic classifier. This advises on utilizing stochastic layers in building decision-making pipelines within a safety-critical domain.

Features extracted from Deep Neural Networks (DNNs) have proven to be very effective in the context of Content Based Image Retrieval (CBIR). In recent work, biologically inspired \textit{Hebbian} learning algorithms have shown promises for DNN training. In this contribution, we study the performance of such algorithms in the development of feature extractors for CBIR tasks. Specifically, we consider a semi-supervised learning strategy in two steps: first, an unsupervised pre-training stage is performed using Hebbian learning on the image dataset; second, the network is fine-tuned using supervised Stochastic Gradient Descent (SGD) training. For the unsupervised pre-training stage, we explore the nonlinear Hebbian Principal Component Analysis (HPCA) learning rule. For the supervised fine-tuning stage, we assume sample efficiency scenarios, in which the amount of labeled samples is just a small fraction of the whole dataset. Our experimental analysis, conducted on the CIFAR10 and CIFAR100 datasets shows that, when few labeled samples are available, our Hebbian approach provides relevant improvements compared to various alternative methods.

  Although ImageNet was initially proposed as a dataset for performance benchmarking in the domain of computer vision, it also enabled a variety of other research efforts. Adversarial machine learning is one such research effort, employing deceptive inputs to fool models in making wrong predictions. To evaluate attacks and defenses in the field of adversarial machine learning, ImageNet remains one of the most frequently used datasets. However, a topic that is yet to be investigated is the nature of the classes into which adversarial examples are misclassified. In this paper, we perform a detailed analysis of these misclassification classes, leveraging the ImageNet class hierarchy and measuring the relative positions of the aforementioned type of classes in the unperturbed origins of the adversarial examples. We find that $71\%$ of the adversarial examples that achieve model-to-model adversarial transferability are misclassified into one of the top-5 classes predicted for the underlying source images. We also find that a large subset of untargeted misclassifications are, in fact, misclassifications into semantically similar classes. Based on these findings, we discuss the need to take into account the ImageNet class hierarchy when evaluating untargeted adversarial successes. Furthermore, we advocate for future research efforts to incorporate categorical information.

  The idealization of a static machine-learned model, trained once and deployed forever, is not practical. As input distributions change over time, the model will not only lose accuracy, any constraints to reduce bias against a protected class may fail to work as intended. Thus, researchers have begun to explore ways to maintain algorithmic fairness over time. One line of work focuses on dynamic learning: retraining after each batch, and the other on robust learning which tries to make algorithms robust against all possible future changes. Dynamic learning seeks to reduce biases soon after they have occurred and robust learning often yields (overly) conservative models. We propose an anticipatory dynamic learning approach for correcting the algorithm to mitigate bias before it occurs. Specifically, we make use of anticipations regarding the relative distributions of population subgroups (e.g., relative ratios of male and female applicants) in the next cycle to identify the right parameters for an importance weighing fairness approach. Results from experiments over multiple real-world datasets suggest that this approach has promise for anticipatory bias correction.

This paper considers over-the-air federated learning (OTA-FL). OTA-FL exploits the superposition property of the wireless medium, and performs model aggregation over the air for free. Thus, it can greatly reduce the communication cost incurred in communicating model updates from the edge devices. In order to fully utilize this advantage while providing comparable learning performance to conventional federated learning that presumes model aggregation via noiseless channels, we consider the joint design of transmission scaling and the number of local iterations at each round, given the power constraint at each edge device. We first characterize the training error due to such channel noise in OTA-FL by establishing a fundamental lower bound for general functions with Lipschitz-continuous gradients. Then, by introducing an adaptive transceiver power scaling scheme, we propose an over-the-air federated learning algorithm with joint adaptive computation and power control (ACPC-OTA-FL). We provide the convergence analysis for ACPC-OTA-FL in training with non-convex objective functions and heterogeneous data. We show that the convergence rate of ACPC-OTA-FL matches that of FL with noise-free communications.

  We introduce a new family of minmax rank aggregation problems under two distance measures, the Kendall {\tau} and the Spearman footrule. As the problems are NP-hard, we proceed to describe a number of constant-approximation algorithms for solving them. We conclude with illustrative applications of the aggregation methods on the Mallows model and genomic data.

  Recently, the standard variational autoencoder has been successfully used to learn a probabilistic prior over speech signals, which is then used to perform speech enhancement. Variational autoencoders have then been conditioned on a label describing a high-level speech attribute (e.g. speech activity) that allows for a more explicit control of speech generation. However, the label is not guaranteed to be disentangled from the other latent variables, which results in limited performance improvements compared to the standard variational autoencoder. In this work, we propose to use an adversarial training scheme for variational autoencoders to disentangle the label from the other latent variables. At training, we use a discriminator that competes with the encoder of the variational autoencoder. Simultaneously, we also use an additional encoder that estimates the label for the decoder of the variational autoencoder, which proves to be crucial to learn disentanglement. We show the benefit of the proposed disentanglement learning when a voice activity label, estimated from visual data, is used for speech enhancement.

  We propose a quantum representation of binary classification trees with binary features based on a probabilistic approach. By using the quantum computer as a processor for probability distributions, a probabilistic traversal of the decision tree can be realized via measurements of a quantum circuit. We describe how tree inductions and the prediction of class labels of query data can be integrated into this framework. An on-demand sampling method enables predictions with a constant number of classical memory slots, independent of the tree depth. We experimentally study our approach using both a quantum computing simulator and actual IBM quantum hardware. To our knowledge, this is the first realization of a decision tree classifier on a quantum device.

  Machine Learning (ML) has been increasingly used to aid humans to make better and faster decisions. However, non-technical humans-in-the-loop struggle to comprehend the rationale behind model predictions, hindering trust in algorithmic decision-making systems. Considerable research work on AI explainability attempts to win back trust in AI systems by developing explanation methods but there is still no major breakthrough. At the same time, popular explanation methods (e.g., LIME, and SHAP) produce explanations that are very hard to understand for non-data scientist persona. To address this, we present JOEL, a neural network-based framework to jointly learn a decision-making task and associated explanations that convey domain knowledge. JOEL is tailored to human-in-the-loop domain experts that lack deep technical ML knowledge, providing high-level insights about the model's predictions that very much resemble the experts' own reasoning. Moreover, we collect the domain feedback from a pool of certified experts and use it to ameliorate the model (human teaching), hence promoting seamless and better suited explanations. Lastly, we resort to semantic mappings between legacy expert systems and domain taxonomies to automatically annotate a bootstrap training set, overcoming the absence of concept-based human annotations. We validate JOEL empirically on a real-world fraud detection dataset. We show that JOEL can generalize the explanations from the bootstrap dataset. Furthermore, obtained results indicate that human teaching can further improve the explanations prediction quality by approximately $13.57\%$.

  Deep-learning-based compressor has received interests recently due to much improved compression ratio. However, modern approaches suffer from long execution time. To ease this problem, this paper targets on cutting down the execution time of deep-learning-based compressors. Building history-dependencies sequentially (e.g., recurrent neural networks) is responsible for long inference latency. Instead, we introduce transformer into deep learning compressors to build history-dependencies in parallel. However, existing transformer is too heavy in computation and incompatible to compression tasks.   This paper proposes a fast general-purpose lossless compressor, TRACE, by designing a compression-friendly structure based on a single-layer transformer. We first design a new metric to advise the selection part of compression model structures. Byte-grouping and Shared-ffn schemes are further proposed to fully utilize the capacity of the single-layer transformer. These features allow TRACE to achieve competitive compression ratio and a much faster speed. In addition, we further accelerate the compression procedure by designing a controller to reduce the parameter updating overhead. Experiments show that TRACE achieves an overall $\sim$3x speedup while keeps a comparable compression ratio to the state-of-the-art compressors. The source code for TRACE and links to the datasets are available at https://github.com/mynotwo/A-Fast-Transformer-based-General-Purpose-LosslessCompressor.

  We present CodeReef - an open platform to share all the components necessary to enable cross-platform MLOps (MLSysOps), i.e. automating the deployment of ML models across diverse systems in the most efficient way. We also introduce the CodeReef solution - a way to package and share models as non-virtualized, portable, customizable and reproducible archive files. Such ML packages include JSON meta description of models with all dependencies, Python APIs, CLI actions and portable workflows necessary to automatically build, benchmark, test and customize models across diverse platforms, AI frameworks, libraries, compilers and datasets. We demonstrate several CodeReef solutions to automatically build, run and measure object detection based on SSD-Mobilenets, TensorFlow and COCO dataset from the latest MLPerf inference benchmark across a wide range of platforms from Raspberry Pi, Android phones and IoT devices to data centers. Our long-term goal is to help researchers share their new techniques as production-ready packages along with research papers to participate in collaborative and reproducible benchmarking, compare the different ML/software/hardware stacks and select the most efficient ones on a Pareto frontier using online CodeReef dashboards.

  Human beings can quickly adapt to environmental changes by leveraging learning experience. However, the poor ability of adapting to dynamic environments remains a major challenge for AI models. To better understand this issue, we study the problem of continual domain adaptation, where the model is presented with a labeled source domain and a sequence of unlabeled target domains. There are two major obstacles in this problem: domain shifts and catastrophic forgetting. In this work, we propose Gradient Regularized Contrastive Learning to solve the above obstacles. At the core of our method, gradient regularization plays two key roles: (1) enforces the gradient of contrastive loss not to increase the supervised training loss on the source domain, which maintains the discriminative power of learned features; (2) regularizes the gradient update on the new domain not to increase the classification loss on the old target domains, which enables the model to adapt to an in-coming target domain while preserving the performance of previously observed domains. Hence our method can jointly learn both semantically discriminative and domain-invariant features with labeled source domain and unlabeled target domains. The experiments on Digits, DomainNet and Office-Caltech benchmarks demonstrate the strong performance of our approach when compared to the state-of-the-art.

  Recent techniques built on Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs), such as Cycle-Consistent GANs, are able to learn mappings among different domains built from unpaired datasets, through min-max optimization games between generators and discriminators. However, it remains challenging to stabilize the training process and thus cyclic models fall into mode collapse accompanied by the success of discriminator. To address this problem, we propose an novel Bayesian cyclic model and an integrated cyclic framework for inter-domain mappings. The proposed method motivated by Bayesian GAN explores the full posteriors of cyclic model via sampling latent variables and optimizes the model with maximum a posteriori (MAP) estimation. Hence, we name it Bayesian CycleGAN. In addition, original CycleGAN cannot generate diversified results. But it is feasible for Bayesian framework to diversify generated images by replacing restricted latent variables in inference process. We evaluate the proposed Bayesian CycleGAN on multiple benchmark datasets, including Cityscapes, Maps, and Monet2photo. The proposed method improve the per-pixel accuracy by 15% for the Cityscapes semantic segmentation task within origin framework and improve 20% within the proposed integrated framework, showing better resilience to imbalance confrontation. The diversified results of Monet2Photo style transfer also demonstrate its superiority over original cyclic model. We provide codes for all of our experiments in https://github.com/ranery/Bayesian-CycleGAN.

  Voice activity detection (VAD), used as the front end of speech enhancement, speech and speaker recognition algorithms, determines the overall accuracy and efficiency of the algorithms. Therefore, a VAD with low complexity and high accuracy is highly desirable for speech processing applications. In this paper, we propose a novel training method on large dataset for supervised learning-based VAD system using support vector machine (SVM). Despite of high classification accuracy of support vector machines (SVM), trivial SVM is not suitable for classification of large data sets needed for a good VAD system because of high training complexity. To overcome this problem, a novel ensemble-based approach using SVM has been proposed in this paper.The performance of the proposed ensemble structure has been compared with a feedforward neural network (NN). Although NN performs better than single SVM-based VAD trained on a small portion of the training data, ensemble SVM gives accuracy comparable to neural network-based VAD. Ensemble SVM and NN give 88.74% and 86.28% accuracy respectively whereas the stand-alone SVM shows 57.05% accuracy on average on the test dataset.

  Spiking Neural Networks (SNNs) have been attached great importance due to the distinctive properties of low power consumption, biological plausibility, and adversarial robustness. The most effective way to train deep SNNs is through ANN-to-SNN conversion, which have yielded the best performance in deep network structure and large-scale datasets. However, there is a trade-off between accuracy and latency. In order to achieve high precision as original ANNs, a long simulation time is needed to match the firing rate of a spiking neuron with the activation value of an analog neuron, which impedes the practical application of SNN. In this paper, we aim to achieve high-performance converted SNNs with extremely low latency (fewer than 32 time-steps). We start by theoretically analyzing ANN-to-SNN conversion and show that scaling the thresholds does play a similar role as weight normalization. Instead of introducing constraints that facilitate ANN-to-SNN conversion at the cost of model capacity, we applied a more direct way by optimizing the initial membrane potential to reduce the conversion loss in each layer. Besides, we demonstrate that optimal initialization of membrane potentials can implement expected error-free ANN-to-SNN conversion. We evaluate our algorithm on the CIFAR-10, CIFAR-100 and ImageNet datasets and achieve state-of-the-art accuracy, using fewer time-steps. For example, we reach top-1 accuracy of 93.38\% on CIFAR-10 with 16 time-steps. Moreover, our method can be applied to other ANN-SNN conversion methodologies and remarkably promote performance when the time-steps is small.

  Neural networks that compute over graph structures are a natural fit for problems in a variety of domains, including natural language (parse trees) and cheminformatics (molecular graphs). However, since the computation graph has a different shape and size for every input, such networks do not directly support batched training or inference. They are also difficult to implement in popular deep learning libraries, which are based on static data-flow graphs. We introduce a technique called dynamic batching, which not only batches together operations between different input graphs of dissimilar shape, but also between different nodes within a single input graph. The technique allows us to create static graphs, using popular libraries, that emulate dynamic computation graphs of arbitrary shape and size. We further present a high-level library of compositional blocks that simplifies the creation of dynamic graph models. Using the library, we demonstrate concise and batch-wise parallel implementations for a variety of models from the literature.

  Performing signal processing over graphs requires knowledge of the underlying fixed topology. However, graphs often grow in size with new nodes appearing over time, whose connectivity is typically unknown; hence, making more challenging the downstream tasks in applications like cold start recommendation. We address such a challenge for signal interpolation at the incoming nodes blind to the topological connectivity of the specific node. Specifically, we propose a stochastic attachment model for incoming nodes parameterized by the attachment probabilities and edge weights. We estimate these parameters in a data-driven fashion by relying only on the attachment behaviour of earlier incoming nodes with the goal of interpolating the signal value. We study the non-convexity of the problem at hand, derive conditions when it can be marginally convexified, and propose an alternating projected descent approach between estimating the attachment probabilities and the edge weights. Numerical experiments with synthetic and real data dealing in cold start collaborative filtering corroborate our findings.

  Inference accuracy of deep neural networks (DNNs) is a crucial performance metric, but can vary greatly in practice subject to actual test datasets and is typically unknown due to the lack of ground truth labels. This has raised significant concerns with trustworthiness of DNNs, especially in safety-critical applications. In this paper, we address trustworthiness of DNNs by using post-hoc processing to monitor the true inference accuracy on a user's dataset. Concretely, we propose a neural network-based accuracy monitor model, which only takes the deployed DNN's softmax probability output as its input and directly predicts if the DNN's prediction result is correct or not, thus leading to an estimate of the true inference accuracy. The accuracy monitor model can be pre-trained on a dataset relevant to the target application of interest, and only needs to actively label a small portion (1% in our experiments) of the user's dataset for model transfer. For estimation robustness, we further employ an ensemble of monitor models based on the Monte-Carlo dropout method. We evaluate our approach on different deployed DNN models for image classification and traffic sign detection over multiple datasets (including adversarial samples). The result shows that our accuracy monitor model provides a close-to-true accuracy estimation and outperforms the existing baseline methods.

  Inception and the Resnet family of Convolutional Neural Network archi-tectures have broken records in the past few years, but recent state of the art models have also incurred very high computational cost in terms of training, inference and model size. Making the deployment of these models on Edge devices, impractical. In light of this, we present a new novel architecture that is designed for high computational efficiency on both GPUs and CPUs, and is highly suited for deployment on Mobile Applications, Smart Cameras, Iot devices and controllers as well as low cost drones. Our architecture boasts competitive accuracies on standard Datasets even out-performing the original Resnet. We present below the motivation for this research, the architecture of the network, single test accuracies on CIFAR 10 and CIFAR 100 , a detailed comparison with other well-known architectures and link to an implementation in Keras.

  Applying x-vectors for speaker verification has recently attracted great interest, with the focus being on text-independent speaker verification. In this paper, we study x-vectors for text-dependent speaker verification (TD-SV), which remains unexplored. We further investigate the impact of the different bottleneck (BN) features on the performance of x-vectors, including the recently-introduced time-contrastive-learning (TCL) BN features and phone-discriminant BN features. TCL is a weakly supervised learning approach that constructs training data by uniformly partitioning each utterance into a predefined number of segments and then assigning each segment a class label depending on their position in the utterance. We also compare TD-SV performance for different modeling techniques, including the Gaussian mixture models-universal background model (GMM-UBM), i-vector, and x-vector. Experiments are conducted on the RedDots 2016 challenge database. It is found that the type of features has a marginal impact on the performance of x-vectors with the TCL BN feature achieving the lowest equal error rate, while the impact of features is significant for i-vector and GMM-UBM. The fusion of x-vector and i-vector systems gives a large gain in performance. The GMM-UBM technique shows its advantage for TD-SV using short utterances.

  This paper builds the clustering model of measures of market microstructure features which are popular in predicting stock returns. In a 10-second time-frequency, we study the clustering structure of different measures to find out the best ones for predicting. In this way, we can predict more accurately with a limited number of predictors, which removes the noise and makes the model more interpretable.

  We propose a fully automatic method for learning gestures on big touch devices in a potentially multi-user context. The goal is to learn general models capable of adapting to different gestures, user styles and hardware variations (e.g. device sizes, sampling frequencies and regularities).   Based on deep neural networks, our method features a novel dynamic sampling and temporal normalization component, transforming variable length gestures into fixed length representations while preserving finger/surface contact transitions, that is, the topology of the signal. This sequential representation is then processed with a convolutional model capable, unlike recurrent networks, of learning hierarchical representations with different levels of abstraction.   To demonstrate the interest of the proposed method, we introduce a new touch gestures dataset with 6591 gestures performed by 27 people, which is, up to our knowledge, the first of its kind: a publicly available multi-touch gesture dataset for interaction.   We also tested our method on a standard dataset of symbolic touch gesture recognition, the MMG dataset, outperforming the state of the art and reporting close to perfect performance.

  The scalability of the labeling process and the attainable quality of labels have become limiting factors for many applications of machine learning. The programmatic creation of labeled datasets via the synthesis of noisy heuristics provides a promising avenue to address this problem. We propose to improve modeling of latent class variables in the programmatic creation of labeled datasets by incorporating pairwise feedback into the process. We discuss the ease with which such pairwise feedback can be obtained or generated in many application domains. Our experiments show that even a small number of sources of pairwise feedback can substantially improve the quality of the posterior estimate of the latent class variable.

  The interest for video anomaly detection systems has gained traction for the past few years. The current approaches use deep learning to perform anomaly detection in videos, but this approach has multiple problems. For starters, deep learning in general has issues with noise, concept drift, explainability, and training data volumes. Additionally, anomaly detection in itself is a complex task and faces challenges such as unknowness, heterogeneity, and class imbalance. Anomaly detection using deep learning is therefore mainly constrained to generative models such as generative adversarial networks and autoencoders due to their unsupervised nature, but even they suffer from general deep learning issues and are hard to train properly. In this paper, we explore the capabilities of the Hierarchical Temporal Memory (HTM) algorithm to perform anomaly detection in videos, as it has favorable properties such as noise tolerance and online learning which combats concept drift. We introduce a novel version of HTM, namely, Grid HTM, which is an HTM-based architecture specifically for anomaly detection in complex videos such as surveillance footage.

  The popularity of Deep Learning for real-world applications is ever-growing. With the introduction of high performance hardware, applications are no longer limited to image recognition. With the introduction of more complex problems comes more and more complex solutions, and the increasing need for explainable AI. Deep Neural Networks for Video tasks are amongst the most complex models, with at least twice the parameters of their Image counterparts. However, explanations for these models are often ill-adapted to the video domain. The current work in explainability for video models is still overshadowed by Image techniques, while Video Deep Learning itself is quickly gaining on methods for still images. This paper seeks to highlight the need for explainability methods designed with video deep learning models, and by association spatio-temporal input in mind, by first illustrating the cutting edge for video deep learning, and then noting the scarcity of research into explanations for these methods.

  We propose a quantization based approach for fast approximate Maximum Inner Product Search (MIPS). Each database vector is quantized in multiple subspaces via a set of codebooks, learned directly by minimizing the inner product quantization error. Then, the inner product of a query to a database vector is approximated as the sum of inner products with the subspace quantizers. Different from recently proposed LSH approaches to MIPS, the database vectors and queries do not need to be augmented in a higher dimensional feature space. We also provide a theoretical analysis of the proposed approach, consisting of the concentration results under mild assumptions. Furthermore, if a small sample of example queries is given at the training time, we propose a modified codebook learning procedure which further improves the accuracy. Experimental results on a variety of datasets including those arising from deep neural networks show that the proposed approach significantly outperforms the existing state-of-the-art.

  Model compression by way of parameter pruning, quantization, or distillation has recently gained popularity as an approach for reducing the computational requirements of modern deep neural network models for NLP. Pruning unnecessary parameters has emerged as a simple and effective method for compressing large models that is compatible with a wide variety of contemporary off-the-shelf hardware (unlike quantization), and that requires little additional training (unlike distillation). Pruning approaches typically take a large, accurate model as input, then attempt to discover a smaller subnetwork of that model capable of achieving end-task accuracy comparable to the full model. Inspired by previous work suggesting a connection between simpler, more generalizable models and those that lie within flat basins in the loss landscape, we propose to directly optimize for flat minima while performing task-specific pruning, which we hypothesize should lead to simpler parameterizations and thus more compressible models. In experiments combining sharpness-aware minimization with both iterative magnitude pruning and structured pruning approaches, we show that optimizing for flat minima consistently leads to greater compressibility of parameters compared to standard Adam optimization when fine-tuning BERT models, leading to higher rates of compression with little to no loss in accuracy on the GLUE classification benchmark.

  Much work has been dedicated to the exploration of Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning (MARL) paradigms implementing a centralized learning with decentralized execution (CLDE) approach to achieve human-like collaboration in cooperative tasks. Here, we discuss variations of centralized training and describe a recent survey of algorithmic approaches. The goal is to explore how different implementations of information sharing mechanism in centralized learning may give rise to distinct group coordinated behaviors in multi-agent systems performing cooperative tasks.

  Can attention- or gradient-based visualization techniques be used to infer token-level labels for binary sequence tagging problems, using networks trained only on sentence-level labels? We construct a neural network architecture based on soft attention, train it as a binary sentence classifier and evaluate against token-level annotation on four different datasets. Inferring token labels from a network provides a method for quantitatively evaluating what the model is learning, along with generating useful feedback in assistance systems. Our results indicate that attention-based methods are able to predict token-level labels more accurately, compared to gradient-based methods, sometimes even rivaling the supervised oracle network.

  The Weather4cast 2021 competition gave the participants a task of predicting the time evolution of two-dimensional fields of satellite-based meteorological data. This paper describes the author's efforts, after initial success in the first stage of the competition, to improve the model further in the second stage. The improvements consisted of a shallower model variant that is competitive against the deeper version, adoption of the AdaBelief optimizer, improved handling of one of the predicted variables where the training set was found not to represent the validation set well, and ensembling multiple models to improve the results further. The largest quantitative improvements to the competition metrics can be attributed to the increased amount of training data available in the second stage of the competition, followed by the effects of model ensembling. Qualitative results show that the model can predict the time evolution of the fields, including the motion of the fields over time, starting with sharp predictions for the immediate future and blurring of the outputs in later frames to account for the increased uncertainty.

  Interpreting the learning dynamics of neural networks can provide useful insights into how networks learn and the development of better training and design approaches. We present an approach to interpret learning in neural networks by measuring relative weight change on a per layer basis and dynamically aggregating emerging trends through combination of dimensionality reduction and clustering which allows us to scale to very deep networks. We use this approach to investigate learning in the context of vision tasks across a variety of state-of-the-art networks and provide insights into the learning behavior of these networks, including how task complexity affects layer-wise learning in deeper layers of networks.

  Sparse tensor best rank-1 approximation (BR1Approx), which is a sparsity generalization of the dense tensor BR1Approx, and is a higher-order extension of the sparse matrix BR1Approx, is one of the most important problems in sparse tensor decomposition and related problems arising from statistics and machine learning. By exploiting the multilinearity as well as the sparsity structure of the problem, four approximation algorithms are proposed, which are easily implemented, of low computational complexity, and can serve as initial procedures for iterative algorithms. In addition, theoretically guaranteed worst-case approximation lower bounds are proved for all the algorithms. We provide numerical experiments on synthetic and real data to illustrate the effectiveness of the proposed algorithms.

  Variable importance is central to scientific studies, including the social sciences and causal inference, healthcare, and other domains. However, current notions of variable importance are often tied to a specific predictive model. This is problematic: what if there were multiple well-performing predictive models, and a specific variable is important to some of them and not to others? In that case, we may not be able to tell from a single well-performing model whether a variable is always important in predicting the outcome. Rather than depending on variable importance for a single predictive model, we would like to explore variable importance for all approximately-equally-accurate predictive models. This work introduces the concept of a variable importance cloud, which maps every variable to its importance for every good predictive model. We show properties of the variable importance cloud and draw connections to other areas of statistics. We introduce variable importance diagrams as a projection of the variable importance cloud into two dimensions for visualization purposes. Experiments with criminal justice, marketing data, and image classification tasks illustrate how variables can change dramatically in importance for approximately-equally-accurate predictive models

  Many machine learning tasks require sampling a subset of items from a collection based on a parameterized distribution. The Gumbel-softmax trick can be used to sample a single item, and allows for low-variance reparameterized gradients with respect to the parameters of the underlying distribution. However, stochastic optimization involving subset sampling is typically not reparameterizable. To overcome this limitation, we define a continuous relaxation of subset sampling that provides reparameterization gradients by generalizing the Gumbel-max trick. We use this approach to sample subsets of features in an instance-wise feature selection task for model interpretability, subsets of neighbors to implement a deep stochastic k-nearest neighbors model, and sub-sequences of neighbors to implement parametric t-SNE by directly comparing the identities of local neighbors. We improve performance in all these tasks by incorporating subset sampling in end-to-end training.

  Probabilistic modeling is iterative. A scientist posits a simple model, fits it to her data, refines it according to her analysis, and repeats. However, fitting complex models to large data is a bottleneck in this process. Deriving algorithms for new models can be both mathematically and computationally challenging, which makes it difficult to efficiently cycle through the steps. To this end, we develop automatic differentiation variational inference (ADVI). Using our method, the scientist only provides a probabilistic model and a dataset, nothing else. ADVI automatically derives an efficient variational inference algorithm, freeing the scientist to refine and explore many models. ADVI supports a broad class of models-no conjugacy assumptions are required. We study ADVI across ten different models and apply it to a dataset with millions of observations. ADVI is integrated into Stan, a probabilistic programming system; it is available for immediate use.

  This work establishes that a physical system can perform statistical learning without gradient computations, via an Agnostic Equilibrium Propagation (Aeqprop) procedure that combines energy minimization, homeostatic control, and nudging towards the correct response. In Aeqprop, the specifics of the system do not have to be known: the procedure is based only on external manipulations, and produces a stochastic gradient descent without explicit gradient computations. Thanks to nudging, the system performs a true, order-one gradient step for each training sample, in contrast with order-zero methods like reinforcement or evolutionary strategies, which rely on trial and error. This procedure considerably widens the range of potential hardware for statistical learning to any system with enough controllable parameters, even if the details of the system are poorly known. Aeqprop also establishes that in natural (bio)physical systems, genuine gradient-based statistical learning may result from generic, relatively simple mechanisms, without backpropagation and its requirement for analytic knowledge of partial derivatives.

  Question answering models struggle to generalize to novel compositions of training patterns, such to longer sequences or more complex test structures. Current end-to-end models learn a flat input embedding which can lose input syntax context. Prior approaches improve generalization by learning permutation invariant models, but these methods do not scale to more complex train-test splits. We propose Grounded Graph Decoding, a method to improve compositional generalization of language representations by grounding structured predictions with an attention mechanism. Grounding enables the model to retain syntax information from the input in thereby significantly improving generalization over complex inputs. By predicting a structured graph containing conjunctions of query clauses, we learn a group invariant representation without making assumptions on the target domain. Our model significantly outperforms state-of-the-art baselines on the Compositional Freebase Questions (CFQ) dataset, a challenging benchmark for compositional generalization in question answering. Moreover, we effectively solve the MCD1 split with 98% accuracy.

  This paper examines the applicability in realistic scenarios of two deep learning based solutions to the overlapping speaker separation problem. Firstly, we present experiments that show that these methods are applicable for a broad range of languages. Further experimentation indicates limited performance loss for untrained languages, when these have common features with the trained language(s). Secondly, it investigates how the methods deal with realistic background noise and proposes some modifications to better cope with these disturbances. The deep learning methods that will be examined are deep clustering and deep attractor networks.

  This work focuses on support vector machine (SVM) with feature selection. A MILP formulation is proposed for the problem. The choice of suitable features to construct the separating hyperplanes has been modelled in this formulation by including a budget constraint that sets in advance a limit on the number of features to be used in the classification process. We propose both an exact and a heuristic procedure to solve this formulation in an efficient way. Finally, the validation of the model is done by checking it with some well-known data sets and comparing it with classical classification methods.

  Lack of transparency has been the Achilles heal of Neural Networks and their wider adoption in industry. Despite significant interest this shortcoming has not been adequately addressed. This study proposes a novel framework called Hide-and-Seek (HnS) for training Interpretable Neural Networks and establishes a theoretical foundation for exploring and comparing similar ideas. Extensive experimentation indicates that a high degree of interpretability can be imputed into Neural Networks, without sacrificing their predictive power.

  Accurate prediction of drug-target interaction (DTI) is essential for in silico drug design. For the purpose, we propose a novel approach for predicting DTI using a GNN that directly incorporates the 3D structure of a protein-ligand complex. We also apply a distance-aware graph attention algorithm with gate augmentation to increase the performance of our model. As a result, our model shows better performance than docking and other deep learning methods for both virtual screening and pose prediction. In addition, our model can reproduce the natural population distribution of active molecules and inactive molecules.

  Originating in the Renaissance and burgeoning in the digital era, tablatures are a commonly used music notation system which provides explicit representations of instrument fingerings rather than pitches. GuitarPro has established itself as a widely used tablature format and software enabling musicians to edit and share songs for musical practice, learning, and composition. In this work, we present DadaGP, a new symbolic music dataset comprising 26,181 song scores in the GuitarPro format covering 739 musical genres, along with an accompanying tokenized format well-suited for generative sequence models such as the Transformer. The tokenized format is inspired by event-based MIDI encodings, often used in symbolic music generation models. The dataset is released with an encoder/decoder which converts GuitarPro files to tokens and back. We present results of a use case in which DadaGP is used to train a Transformer-based model to generate new songs in GuitarPro format. We discuss other relevant use cases for the dataset (guitar-bass transcription, music style transfer and artist/genre classification) as well as ethical implications. DadaGP opens up the possibility to train GuitarPro score generators, fine-tune models on custom data, create new styles of music, AI-powered songwriting apps, and human-AI improvisation.

  Motifs are the most repetitive/frequent patterns of a time-series. The discovery of motifs is crucial for practitioners in order to understand and interpret the phenomena occurring in sequential data. Currently, motifs are searched among series sub-sequences, aiming at selecting the most frequently occurring ones. Search-based methods, which try out series sub-sequence as motif candidates, are currently believed to be the best methods in finding the most frequent patterns.   However, this paper proposes an entirely new perspective in finding motifs. We demonstrate that searching is non-optimal since the domain of motifs is restricted, and instead we propose a principled optimization approach able to find optimal motifs. We treat the occurrence frequency as a function and time-series motifs as its parameters, therefore we \textit{learn} the optimal motifs that maximize the frequency function. In contrast to searching, our method is able to discover the most repetitive patterns (hence optimal), even in cases where they do not explicitly occur as sub-sequences. Experiments on several real-life time-series datasets show that the motifs found by our method are highly more frequent than the ones found through searching, for exactly the same distance threshold.

  Learning to imitate expert behavior from demonstrations can be challenging, especially in environments with high-dimensional, continuous observations and unknown dynamics. Supervised learning methods based on behavioral cloning (BC) suffer from distribution shift: because the agent greedily imitates demonstrated actions, it can drift away from demonstrated states due to error accumulation. Recent methods based on reinforcement learning (RL), such as inverse RL and generative adversarial imitation learning (GAIL), overcome this issue by training an RL agent to match the demonstrations over a long horizon. Since the true reward function for the task is unknown, these methods learn a reward function from the demonstrations, often using complex and brittle approximation techniques that involve adversarial training. We propose a simple alternative that still uses RL, but does not require learning a reward function. The key idea is to provide the agent with an incentive to match the demonstrations over a long horizon, by encouraging it to return to demonstrated states upon encountering new, out-of-distribution states. We accomplish this by giving the agent a constant reward of r=+1 for matching the demonstrated action in a demonstrated state, and a constant reward of r=0 for all other behavior. Our method, which we call soft Q imitation learning (SQIL), can be implemented with a handful of minor modifications to any standard Q-learning or off-policy actor-critic algorithm. Theoretically, we show that SQIL can be interpreted as a regularized variant of BC that uses a sparsity prior to encourage long-horizon imitation. Empirically, we show that SQIL outperforms BC and achieves competitive results compared to GAIL, on a variety of image-based and low-dimensional tasks in Box2D, Atari, and MuJoCo.

  Interesting data often concentrate on low dimensional smooth manifolds inside a high dimensional ambient space. Random projections are a simple, powerful tool for dimensionality reduction of such data. Previous works have studied bounds on how many projections are needed to accurately preserve the geometry of these manifolds, given their intrinsic dimensionality, volume and curvature. However, such works employ definitions of volume and curvature that are inherently difficult to compute. Therefore such theory cannot be easily tested against numerical simulations to understand the tightness of the proven bounds. We instead study typical distortions arising in random projections of an ensemble of smooth Gaussian random manifolds. We find explicitly computable, approximate theoretical bounds on the number of projections required to accurately preserve the geometry of these manifolds. Our bounds, while approximate, can only be violated with a probability that is exponentially small in the ambient dimension, and therefore they hold with high probability in cases of practical interest. Moreover, unlike previous work, we test our theoretical bounds against numerical experiments on the actual geometric distortions that typically occur for random projections of random smooth manifolds. We find our bounds are tighter than previous results by several orders of magnitude.

  Many physical systems have underlying safety considerations that require that the policy employed ensures the satisfaction of a set of constraints. The analytical formulation usually takes the form of a Constrained Markov Decision Process (CMDP). We focus on the case where the CMDP is unknown, and RL algorithms obtain samples to discover the model and compute an optimal constrained policy. Our goal is to characterize the relationship between safety constraints and the number of samples needed to ensure a desired level of accuracy -- both objective maximization and constraint satisfaction -- in a PAC sense. We explore two classes of RL algorithms, namely, (i) a generative model based approach, wherein samples are taken initially to estimate a model, and (ii) an online approach, wherein the model is updated as samples are obtained. Our main finding is that compared to the best known bounds of the unconstrained regime, the sample complexity of constrained RL algorithms are increased by a factor that is logarithmic in the number of constraints, which suggests that the approach may be easily utilized in real systems.

  Random Fourier features (RFFs) provide a promising way for kernel learning in a spectral case. Current RFFs-based kernel learning methods usually work in a two-stage way. In the first-stage process, learning the optimal feature map is often formulated as a target alignment problem, which aims to align the learned kernel with the pre-defined target kernel (usually the ideal kernel). In the second-stage process, a linear learner is conducted with respect to the mapped random features. Nevertheless, the pre-defined kernel in target alignment is not necessarily optimal for the generalization of the linear learner. Instead, in this paper, we consider a one-stage process that incorporates the kernel learning and linear learner into a unifying framework. To be specific, a generative network via RFFs is devised to implicitly learn the kernel, followed by a linear classifier parameterized as a full-connected layer. Then the generative network and the classifier are jointly trained by solving the empirical risk minimization (ERM) problem to reach a one-stage solution. This end-to-end scheme naturally allows deeper features, in correspondence to a multi-layer structure, and shows superior generalization performance over the classical two-stage, RFFs-based methods in real-world classification tasks. Moreover, inspired by the randomized resampling mechanism of the proposed method, its enhanced adversarial robustness is investigated and experimentally verified.

  We explore the feasibility of using triplet neural networks to embed songs based on content-based music similarity. Our network is trained using triplets of songs such that two songs by the same artist are embedded closer to one another than to a third song by a different artist. We compare two models that are trained using different ways of picking this third song: at random vs. based on shared genre labels. Our experiments are conducted using songs from the Free Music Archive and use standard audio features. The initial results show that shallow Siamese networks can be used to embed music for a simple artist retrieval task.

  As representation learning becomes a powerful technique to reduce sample complexity in reinforcement learning (RL) in practice, theoretical understanding of its advantage is still limited. In this paper, we theoretically characterize the benefit of representation learning under the low-rank Markov decision process (MDP) model. We first study multitask low-rank RL (as upstream training), where all tasks share a common representation, and propose a new multitask reward-free algorithm called REFUEL. REFUEL learns both the transition kernel and the near-optimal policy for each task, and outputs a well-learned representation for downstream tasks. Our result demonstrates that multitask representation learning is provably more sample-efficient than learning each task individually, as long as the total number of tasks is above a certain threshold. We then study the downstream RL in both online and offline settings, where the agent is assigned with a new task sharing the same representation as the upstream tasks. For both online and offline settings, we develop a sample-efficient algorithm, and show that it finds a near-optimal policy with the suboptimality gap bounded by the sum of the estimation error of the learned representation in upstream and a vanishing term as the number of downstream samples becomes large. Our downstream results of online and offline RL further capture the benefit of employing the learned representation from upstream as opposed to learning the representation of the low-rank model directly. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first theoretical study that characterizes the benefit of representation learning in exploration-based reward-free multitask RL for both upstream and downstream tasks.

  Data-driven learning of partial differential equations' solution operators has recently emerged as a promising paradigm for approximating the underlying solutions. The solution operators are usually parameterized by deep learning models that are built upon problem-specific inductive biases. An example is a convolutional or a graph neural network that exploits the local grid structure where functions' values are sampled. The attention mechanism, on the other hand, provides a flexible way to implicitly exploit the patterns within inputs, and furthermore, relationship between arbitrary query locations and inputs. In this work, we present an attention-based framework for data-driven operator learning, which we term Operator Transformer (OFormer). Our framework is built upon self-attention, cross-attention, and a set of point-wise multilayer perceptrons (MLPs), and thus it makes few assumptions on the sampling pattern of the input function or query locations. We show that the proposed framework is competitive on standard benchmark problems and can flexibly be adapted to randomly sampled input.

  The convergence rates for convex and non-convex optimization methods depend on the choice of a host of constants, including step sizes, Lyapunov function constants and momentum constants. In this work we propose the use of factorial powers as a flexible tool for defining constants that appear in convergence proofs. We list a number of remarkable properties that these sequences enjoy, and show how they can be applied to convergence proofs to simplify or improve the convergence rates of the momentum method, accelerated gradient and the stochastic variance reduced method (SVRG).

  A machine learned (ML) model for predicting product state distributions from specific initial states (state-to-distribution or STD) for reactive atom-diatom collisions is presented and quantitatively tested for the N($^4$S)+O$_{2}$(X$^3 \Sigma_{\rm g}^{-}$) $\rightarrow$ NO(X$^2\Pi$) +O($^3$P) reaction. The reference data set for training the neural network (NN) consists of final state distributions determined from explicit quasi-classical trajectory (QCT) simulations for $\sim 2000$ initial conditions. Overall, the prediction accuracy as quantified by the root-mean-squared difference $(\sim 0.003)$ and the $R^2$ $(\sim 0.99)$ between the reference QCT and predictions of the STD model is high for the test set and off-grid state specific initial conditions and for initial conditions drawn from reactant state distributions characterized by translational, rotational and vibrational temperatures. Compared with a more coarse grained distribution-to-distribution (DTD) model evaluated on the same initial state distributions, the STD model shows comparable performance with the additional benefit of the state resolution in the reactant preparation. Starting from specific initial states also leads to a more diverse range of final state distributions which requires a more expressive neural network to be used compared with DTD. Direct comparison between explicit QCT simulations, the STD model, and the widely used Larsen-Borgnakke (LB) model shows that the STD model is quantitative whereas the LB model is qualitative at best for rotational distributions $P(j')$ and fails for vibrational distributions $P(v')$. As such the STD model can be well-suited for simulating nonequilibrium high-speed flows, e.g., using the direct simulation Monte Carlo method.

  An unsupervised learning algorithm to cluster hyperspectral image (HSI) data is proposed that exploits spatially-regularized random walks. Markov diffusions are defined on the space of HSI spectra with transitions constrained to near spatial neighbors. The explicit incorporation of spatial regularity into the diffusion construction leads to smoother random processes that are more adapted for unsupervised machine learning than those based on spectra alone. The regularized diffusion process is subsequently used to embed the high-dimensional HSI into a lower dimensional space through diffusion distances. Cluster modes are computed using density estimation and diffusion distances, and all other points are labeled according to these modes. The proposed method has low computational complexity and performs competitively against state-of-the-art HSI clustering algorithms on real data. In particular, the proposed spatial regularization confers an empirical advantage over non-regularized methods.

  We present a novel clustering objective that learns a neural network classifier from scratch, given only unlabelled data samples. The model discovers clusters that accurately match semantic classes, achieving state-of-the-art results in eight unsupervised clustering benchmarks spanning image classification and segmentation. These include STL10, an unsupervised variant of ImageNet, and CIFAR10, where we significantly beat the accuracy of our closest competitors by 6.6 and 9.5 absolute percentage points respectively. The method is not specialised to computer vision and operates on any paired dataset samples; in our experiments we use random transforms to obtain a pair from each image. The trained network directly outputs semantic labels, rather than high dimensional representations that need external processing to be usable for semantic clustering. The objective is simply to maximise mutual information between the class assignments of each pair. It is easy to implement and rigorously grounded in information theory, meaning we effortlessly avoid degenerate solutions that other clustering methods are susceptible to. In addition to the fully unsupervised mode, we also test two semi-supervised settings. The first achieves 88.8% accuracy on STL10 classification, setting a new global state-of-the-art over all existing methods (whether supervised, semi-supervised or unsupervised). The second shows robustness to 90% reductions in label coverage, of relevance to applications that wish to make use of small amounts of labels. github.com/xu-ji/IIC

  The Graph Augmented Multi-layer Perceptron (GA-MLP) model is an attractive alternative to Graph Neural Networks (GNNs). This is because it is resistant to the over-smoothing problem, and deeper GA-MLP models yield better performance. GA-MLP models are traditionally optimized by the Stochastic Gradient Descent (SGD). However, SGD suffers from the layer dependency problem, which prevents the gradients of different layers of GA-MLP models from being calculated in parallel. In this paper, we propose a parallel deep learning Alternating Direction Method of Multipliers (pdADMM) framework to achieve model parallelism: parameters in each layer of GA-MLP models can be updated in parallel. The extended pdADMM-Q algorithm reduces communication cost by utilizing the quantization technique. Theoretical convergence to a critical point of the pdADMM algorithm and the pdADMM-Q algorithm is provided with a sublinear convergence rate $o(1/k)$. Extensive experiments in six benchmark datasets demonstrate that the pdADMM can lead to high speedup, and outperforms all the existing state-of-the-art comparison methods.

  We investigate the performance of sentence embeddings models on several tasks for the Russian language. In our comparison, we include such tasks as multiple choice question answering, next sentence prediction, and paraphrase identification. We employ FastText embeddings as a baseline and compare it to ELMo and BERT embeddings. We conduct two series of experiments, using both unsupervised (i.e., based on similarity measure only) and supervised approaches for the tasks. Finally, we present datasets for multiple choice question answering and next sentence prediction in Russian.

  Stereo matching is one of the widely used techniques for inferring depth from stereo images owing to its robustness and speed. It has become one of the major topics of research since it finds its applications in autonomous driving, robotic navigation, 3D reconstruction, and many other fields. Finding pixel correspondences in non-textured, occluded and reflective areas is the major challenge in stereo matching. Recent developments have shown that semantic cues from image segmentation can be used to improve the results of stereo matching. Many deep neural network architectures have been proposed to leverage the advantages of semantic segmentation in stereo matching. This paper aims to give a comparison among the state of art networks both in terms of accuracy and in terms of speed which are of higher importance in real-time applications.

  Machine learning classifiers are critically prone to evasion attacks. Adversarial examples are slightly modified inputs that are then misclassified, while remaining perceptively close to their originals. Last couple of years have witnessed a striking decrease in the amount of queries a black box attack submits to the target classifier, in order to forge adversarials. This particularly concerns the black-box score-based setup, where the attacker has access to top predicted probabilites: the amount of queries went from to millions of to less than a thousand. This paper presents SurFree, a geometrical approach that achieves a similar drastic reduction in the amount of queries in the hardest setup: black box decision-based attacks (only the top-1 label is available). We first highlight that the most recent attacks in that setup, HSJA, QEBA and GeoDA all perform costly gradient surrogate estimations. SurFree proposes to bypass these, by instead focusing on careful trials along diverse directions, guided by precise indications of geometrical properties of the classifier decision boundaries. We motivate this geometric approach before performing a head-to-head comparison with previous attacks with the amount of queries as a first class citizen. We exhibit a faster distortion decay under low query amounts (few hundreds to a thousand), while remaining competitive at higher query budgets.

  Reinforcement learning (RL) is one of the most active fields of AI research. Despite the interest demonstrated by the research community in reinforcement learning, the development methodology still lags behind, with a severe lack of standard APIs to foster the development of RL applications. OpenAI Gym is probably the most used environment to develop RL applications and simulations, but most of the abstractions proposed in such a framework are still assuming a semi-structured methodology. This is particularly relevant for agent-based models whose purpose is to analyse adaptive behaviour displayed by self-learning agents in the simulation. In order to bridge this gap, we present a workflow and tools for the decoupled development and maintenance of multi-purpose agent-based models and derived single-purpose reinforcement learning environments, enabling the researcher to swap out environments with ones representing different perspectives or different reward models, all while keeping the underlying domain model intact and separate. The Sim-Env Python library generates OpenAI-Gym-compatible reinforcement learning environments that use existing or purposely created domain models as their simulation back-ends. Its design emphasizes ease-of-use, modularity and code separation.

  Truncated Singular Value Decomposition (SVD) calculates the closest rank-$k$ approximation of a given input matrix. Selecting the appropriate rank $k$ defines a critical model order choice in most applications of SVD. To obtain a principled cut-off criterion for the spectrum, we convert the underlying optimization problem into a noisy channel coding problem. The optimal approximation capacity of this channel controls the appropriate strength of regularization to suppress noise. In simulation experiments, this information theoretic method to determine the optimal rank competes with state-of-the art model selection techniques.

  While Post-Earnings-Announcement Drift (PEAD) is one of the most studied stock market anomalies, the current literature is often limited in explaining this phenomenon by a small number of factors using simpler regression methods. In this paper, we use a machine learning based approach instead, and aim to capture the PEAD dynamics using data from a large group of stocks and a wide range of both fundamental and technical factors. Our model is built around the Extreme Gradient Boosting (XGBoost) and uses a long list of engineered input features based on quarterly financial announcement data from 1,106 companies in the Russell 1000 index between 1997 and 2018. We perform numerous experiments on PEAD predictions and analysis and have the following contributions to the literature. First, we show how Post-Earnings-Announcement Drift can be analysed using machine learning methods and demonstrate such methods' prowess in producing credible forecasting on the drift direction. It is the first time PEAD dynamics are studied using XGBoost. We show that the drift direction is in fact driven by different factors for stocks from different industrial sectors and in different quarters and XGBoost is effective in understanding the changing drivers. Second, we show that an XGBoost well optimised by a Genetic Algorithm can help allocate out-of-sample stocks to form portfolios with higher positive returns to long and portfolios with lower negative returns to short, a finding that could be adopted in the process of developing market neutral strategies. Third, we show how theoretical event-driven stock strategies have to grapple with ever changing market prices in reality, reducing their effectiveness. We present a tactic to remedy the difficulty of buying into a moving market when dealing with PEAD signals.

  This work presents an overarching perspective on the role that machine intelligence can play in enhancing human abilities, especially those that have been diminished due to injury or illness. As a primary contribution, we develop the hypothesis that assistive devices, and specifically artificial arms and hands, can and should be viewed as agents in order for us to most effectively improve their collaboration with their human users. We believe that increased agency will enable more powerful interactions between human users and next generation prosthetic devices, especially when the sensorimotor space of the prosthetic technology greatly exceeds the conventional control and communication channels available to a prosthetic user. To more concretely examine an agency-based view on prosthetic devices, we propose a new schema for interpreting the capacity of a human-machine collaboration as a function of both the human's and machine's degrees of agency. We then introduce the idea of communicative capital as a way of thinking about the communication resources developed by a human and a machine during their ongoing interaction. Using this schema of agency and capacity, we examine the benefits and disadvantages of increasing the agency of a prosthetic limb. To do so, we present an analysis of examples from the literature where building communicative capital has enabled a progression of fruitful, task-directed interactions between prostheses and their human users. We then describe further work that is needed to concretely evaluate the hypothesis that prostheses are best thought of as agents. The agent-based viewpoint developed in this article significantly extends current thinking on how best to support the natural, functional use of increasingly complex prosthetic enhancements, and opens the door for more powerful interactions between humans and their assistive technologies.

  We study deep neural networks and their use in semiparametric inference. We establish novel rates of convergence for deep feedforward neural nets. Our new rates are sufficiently fast (in some cases minimax optimal) to allow us to establish valid second-step inference after first-step estimation with deep learning, a result also new to the literature. Our estimation rates and semiparametric inference results handle the current standard architecture: fully connected feedforward neural networks (multi-layer perceptrons), with the now-common rectified linear unit activation function and a depth explicitly diverging with the sample size. We discuss other architectures as well, including fixed-width, very deep networks. We establish nonasymptotic bounds for these deep nets for a general class of nonparametric regression-type loss functions, which includes as special cases least squares, logistic regression, and other generalized linear models. We then apply our theory to develop semiparametric inference, focusing on causal parameters for concreteness, such as treatment effects, expected welfare, and decomposition effects. Inference in many other semiparametric contexts can be readily obtained. We demonstrate the effectiveness of deep learning with a Monte Carlo analysis and an empirical application to direct mail marketing.

  Fine-tuning from pre-trained ImageNet models has become the de-facto standard for various computer vision tasks. Current practices for fine-tuning typically involve selecting an ad-hoc choice of hyperparameters and keeping them fixed to values normally used for training from scratch. This paper re-examines several common practices of setting hyperparameters for fine-tuning. Our findings are based on extensive empirical evaluation for fine-tuning on various transfer learning benchmarks. (1) While prior works have thoroughly investigated learning rate and batch size, momentum for fine-tuning is a relatively unexplored parameter. We find that the value of momentum also affects fine-tuning performance and connect it with previous theoretical findings. (2) Optimal hyperparameters for fine-tuning, in particular, the effective learning rate, are not only dataset dependent but also sensitive to the similarity between the source domain and target domain. This is in contrast to hyperparameters for training from scratch. (3) Reference-based regularization that keeps models close to the initial model does not necessarily apply for "dissimilar" datasets. Our findings challenge common practices of fine-tuning and encourages deep learning practitioners to rethink the hyperparameters for fine-tuning.

  CFD is widely used in physical system design and optimization, where it is used to predict engineering quantities of interest, such as the lift on a plane wing or the drag on a motor vehicle. However, many systems of interest are prohibitively expensive for design optimization, due to the expense of evaluating CFD simulations. To render the computation tractable, reduced-order or surrogate models are used to accelerate simulations while respecting the convergence constraints provided by the higher-fidelity solution. This paper introduces CFDNet -- a physical simulation and deep learning coupled framework, for accelerating the convergence of Reynolds Averaged Navier-Stokes simulations. CFDNet is designed to predict the primary physical properties of the fluid including velocity, pressure, and eddy viscosity using a single convolutional neural network at its core. We evaluate CFDNet on a variety of use-cases, both extrapolative and interpolative, where test geometries are observed/not-observed during training. Our results show that CFDNet meets the convergence constraints of the domain-specific physics solver while outperforming it by 1.9 - 7.4x on both steady laminar and turbulent flows. Moreover, we demonstrate the generalization capacity of CFDNet by testing its prediction on new geometries unseen during training. In this case, the approach meets the CFD convergence criterion while still providing significant speedups over traditional domain-only models.

  Data parallelism has become a dominant method to scale Deep Neural Network (DNN) training across multiple nodes. Since synchronizing a large number of gradients of the local model can be a bottleneck for large-scale distributed training, compressing communication data has gained widespread attention recently. Among several recent proposed compression algorithms, Residual Gradient Compression (RGC) is one of the most successful approaches---it can significantly compress the transmitting message size (0.1\% of the gradient size) of each node and still achieve correct accuracy and the same convergence speed. However, the literature on compressing deep networks focuses almost exclusively on achieving good theoretical compression rate, while the efficiency of RGC in real distributed implementation has been less investigated. In this paper, we develop an RGC-based system that is able to reduce the end-to-end training time on real-world multi-GPU systems. Our proposed design called RedSync, which introduces a set of optimizations to reduce communication bandwidth requirement while introducing limited overhead. We evaluate the performance of RedSync on two different multiple GPU platforms, including 128 GPUs of a supercomputer and an 8-GPU server. Our test cases include image classification tasks on Cifar10 and ImageNet, and language modeling tasks on Penn Treebank and Wiki2 datasets. For DNNs featured with high communication to computation ratio, which have long been considered with poor scalability, RedSync brings significant performance improvements.

  Due to its simplicity and outstanding ability to generalize, stochastic gradient descent (SGD) is still the most widely used optimization method despite its slow convergence. Meanwhile, adaptive methods have attracted rising attention of optimization and machine learning communities, both for the leverage of life-long information and for the profound and fundamental mathematical theory. Taking the best of both worlds is the most exciting and challenging question in the field of optimization for machine learning. Along this line, we revisited existing adaptive gradient methods from a novel perspective, refreshing understanding of second moments. Our new perspective empowers us to attach the properties of second moments to the first moment iteration, and to propose a novel first moment optimizer, \emph{Angle-Calibrated Moment method} (\method). Our theoretical results show that \method is able to achieve the same convergence rate as mainstream adaptive methods. Furthermore, extensive experiments on CV and NLP tasks demonstrate that \method has a comparable convergence to SOTA Adam-type optimizers, and gains a better generalization performance in most cases.

  Biological studies show that hummingbirds can perform extreme aerobatic maneuvers during fast escape. Given a sudden looming visual stimulus at hover, a hummingbird initiates a fast backward translation coupled with a 180-degree yaw turn, which is followed by instant posture stabilization in just under 10 wingbeats. Consider the wingbeat frequency of 40Hz, this aggressive maneuver is carried out in just 0.2 seconds. Inspired by the hummingbirds' near-maximal performance during such extreme maneuvers, we developed a flight control strategy and experimentally demonstrated that such maneuverability can be achieved by an at-scale 12-gram hummingbird robot equipped with just two actuators. The proposed hybrid control policy combines model-based nonlinear control with model-free reinforcement learning. We use model-based nonlinear control for nominal flight control, as the dynamic model is relatively accurate for these conditions. However, during extreme maneuver, the modeling error becomes unmanageable. A model-free reinforcement learning policy trained in simulation was optimized to 'destabilize' the system and maximize the performance during maneuvering. The hybrid policy manifests a maneuver that is close to that observed in hummingbirds. Direct simulation-to-real transfer is achieved, demonstrating the hummingbird-like fast evasive maneuvers on the at-scale hummingbird robot.

  Influenced by the great success of deep learning via cloud computing and the rapid development of edge chips, research in artificial intelligence (AI) has shifted to both of the computing paradigms, i.e., cloud computing and edge computing. In recent years, we have witnessed significant progress in developing more advanced AI models on cloud servers that surpass traditional deep learning models owing to model innovations (e.g., Transformers, Pretrained families), explosion of training data and soaring computing capabilities. However, edge computing, especially edge and cloud collaborative computing, are still in its infancy to announce their success due to the resource-constrained IoT scenarios with very limited algorithms deployed. In this survey, we conduct a systematic review for both cloud and edge AI. Specifically, we are the first to set up the collaborative learning mechanism for cloud and edge modeling with a thorough review of the architectures that enable such mechanism. We also discuss potentials and practical experiences of some on-going advanced edge AI topics including pretraining models, graph neural networks and reinforcement learning. Finally, we discuss the promising directions and challenges in this field.

  Finding parameters in a deep neural network (NN) that fit training data is a nonconvex optimization problem, but a basic first-order optimization method (gradient descent) finds a global optimizer with perfect fit (zero-loss) in many practical situations. We examine this phenomenon for the case of Residual Neural Networks (ResNet) with smooth activation functions in a limiting regime in which both the number of layers (depth) and the number of weights in each layer (width) go to infinity. First, we use a mean-field-limit argument to prove that the gradient descent for parameter training becomes a gradient flow for a probability distribution that is characterized by a partial differential equation (PDE) in the large-NN limit. Next, we show that under certain assumptions, the solution to the PDE converges in the training time to a zero-loss solution. Together, these results suggest that the training of the ResNet gives a near-zero loss if the ResNet is large enough. We give estimates of the depth and width needed to reduce the loss below a given threshold, with high probability.

  Wasserstein barycenter, built on the theory of optimal transport, provides a powerful framework to aggregate probability distributions, and it has increasingly attracted great attention within the machine learning community. However, it suffers from severe computational burden, especially for high dimensional and continuous settings. To this end, we develop a novel continuous approximation method for the Wasserstein barycenters problem given sample access to the input distributions. The basic idea is to introduce a variational distribution as the approximation of the true continuous barycenter, so as to frame the barycenters computation problem as an optimization problem, where parameters of the variational distribution adjust the proxy distribution to be similar to the barycenter. Leveraging the variational distribution, we construct a tractable dual formulation for the regularized Wasserstein barycenter problem with c-cyclical monotonicity, which can be efficiently solved by stochastic optimization. We provide theoretical analysis on convergence and demonstrate the practical effectiveness of our method on real applications of subset posterior aggregation and synthetic data.

  $\newcommand{\ball}{\mathbb{B}}\newcommand{\dsQ}{{\mathcal{Q}}}\newcommand{\dsS}{{\mathcal{S}}}$In this work we study a fair variant of the near neighbor problem. Namely, given a set of $n$ points $P$ and a parameter $r$, the goal is to preprocess the points, such that given a query point $q$, any point in the $r$-neighborhood of the query, i.e., $\ball(q,r)$, have the same probability of being reported as the near neighbor.   We show that LSH based algorithms can be made fair, without a significant loss in efficiency. Specifically, we show an algorithm that reports a point in the $r$-neighborhood of a query $q$ with almost uniform probability. The query time is proportional to $O\bigl( \mathrm{dns}(q.r) \dsQ(n,c) \bigr)$, and its space is $O(\dsS(n,c))$, where $\dsQ(n,c)$ and $\dsS(n,c)$ are the query time and space of an LSH algorithm for $c$-approximate near neighbor, and $\mathrm{dns}(q,r)$ is a function of the local density around $q$.   Our approach works more generally for sampling uniformly from a sub-collection of sets of a given collection and can be used in a few other applications. Finally, we run experiments to show performance of our approach on real data.

  Recently there was an increasing interest in applications of graph neural networks in non-Euclidean geometry; however, are non-Euclidean representations always useful for graph learning tasks? For different problems such as node classification and link prediction we compute hyperbolic embeddings and conclude that for tasks that require global prediction consistency it might be useful to use non-Euclidean embeddings, while for other tasks Euclidean models are superior. To do so we first fix an issue of the existing models associated with the optimization process at zero curvature. Current hyperbolic models deal with gradients at the origin in ad-hoc manner, which is inefficient and can lead to numerical instabilities. We solve the instabilities of kappa-Stereographic model at zero curvature cases and evaluate the approach of embedding graphs into the manifold in several graph representation learning tasks.

  We introduce neural Markov logic networks (NMLNs), a statistical relational learning system that borrows ideas from Markov logic. Like Markov logic networks (MLNs), NMLNs are an exponential-family model for modelling distributions over possible worlds, but unlike MLNs, they do not rely on explicitly specified first-order logic rules. Instead, NMLNs learn an implicit representation of such rules as a neural network that acts as a potential function on fragments of the relational structure. Similarly to many neural symbolic methods, NMLNs can exploit embeddings of constants but, unlike them, NMLNs work well also in their absence. This is extremely important for predicting in settings other than the transductive one. We showcase the potential of NMLNs on knowledge-base completion, triple classification and on generation of molecular (graph) data.

  We propose a new learning to rank algorithm, named Weighted Margin-Rank Batch loss (WMRB), to extend the popular Weighted Approximate-Rank Pairwise loss (WARP). WMRB uses a new rank estimator and an efficient batch training algorithm. The approach allows more accurate item rank approximation and explicit utilization of parallel computation to accelerate training. In three item recommendation tasks, WMRB consistently outperforms WARP and other baselines. Moreover, WMRB shows clear time efficiency advantages as data scale increases.

  We investigate the loss surface of neural networks. We prove that even for one-hidden-layer networks with "slightest" nonlinearity, the empirical risks have spurious local minima in most cases. Our results thus indicate that in general "no spurious local minima" is a property limited to deep linear networks, and insights obtained from linear networks may not be robust. Specifically, for ReLU(-like) networks we constructively prove that for almost all practical datasets there exist infinitely many local minima. We also present a counterexample for more general activations (sigmoid, tanh, arctan, ReLU, etc.), for which there exists a bad local minimum. Our results make the least restrictive assumptions relative to existing results on spurious local optima in neural networks. We complete our discussion by presenting a comprehensive characterization of global optimality for deep linear networks, which unifies other results on this topic.

  Along with the development of AI democratization, the machine learning approach, in particular neural networks, has been applied to wide-range applications. In different application scenarios, the neural network will be accelerated on the tailored computing platform. The acceleration of neural networks on classical computing platforms, such as CPU, GPU, FPGA, ASIC, has been widely studied; however, when the scale of the application consistently grows up, the memory bottleneck becomes obvious, widely known as memory-wall. In response to such a challenge, advanced quantum computing, which can represent 2^N states with N quantum bits (qubits), is regarded as a promising solution. It is imminent to know how to design the quantum circuit for accelerating neural networks. Most recently, there are initial works studying how to map neural networks to actual quantum processors. To better understand the state-of-the-art design and inspire new design methodology, this paper carries out a case study to demonstrate an end-to-end implementation. On the neural network side, we employ the multilayer perceptron to complete image classification tasks using the standard and widely used MNIST dataset. On the quantum computing side, we target IBM Quantum processors, which can be programmed and simulated by using IBM Qiskit. This work targets the acceleration of the inference phase of a trained neural network on the quantum processor. Along with the case study, we will demonstrate the typical procedure for mapping neural networks to quantum circuits.

The interest in analog computation has grown tremendously in recent years due to its fast computation speed and excellent energy efficiency, which is very important for edge and IoT devices in the sub-watt power envelope for deep learning inferencing. However, significant performance degradation suffered by deep learning models due to the inherent noise present in the analog computation can limit their use in mission-critical applications. Hence, there is a need to understand the impact of critical model hyperparameters choice on the resulting model noise-resistant property. This need is critical as the insight obtained can be used to design deep learning models that are robust to analog noise. In this paper, the impact of the learning rate, a critical design choice, on the noise-resistant property is investigated. The study is achieved by first training deep learning models using different learning rates. Thereafter, the models are injected with analog noise and the noise-resistant property of the resulting models is examined by measuring the performance degradation due to the analog noise. The results showed there exists a sweet spot of learning rate values that achieves a good balance between model prediction performance and model noise-resistant property. Furthermore, the theoretical justification of the observed phenomenon is provided.

  Reinforcement learning (RL) algorithms have made huge progress in recent years by leveraging the power of deep neural networks (DNN). Despite the success, deep RL algorithms are known to be sample inefficient, often requiring many rounds of interaction with the environments to obtain satisfactory performance. Recently, episodic memory based RL has attracted attention due to its ability to latch on good actions quickly. In this paper, we present a simple yet effective biologically inspired RL algorithm called Episodic Memory Deep Q-Networks (EMDQN), which leverages episodic memory to supervise an agent during training. Experiments show that our proposed method can lead to better sample efficiency and is more likely to find good policies. It only requires 1/5 of the interactions of DQN to achieve many state-of-the-art performances on Atari games, significantly outperforming regular DQN and other episodic memory based RL algorithms.

  Many machine learning tasks, such as learning with invariance and policy evaluation in reinforcement learning, can be characterized as problems of learning from conditional distributions. In such problems, each sample $x$ itself is associated with a conditional distribution $p(z|x)$ represented by samples $\{z_i\}_{i=1}^M$, and the goal is to learn a function $f$ that links these conditional distributions to target values $y$. These learning problems become very challenging when we only have limited samples or in the extreme case only one sample from each conditional distribution. Commonly used approaches either assume that $z$ is independent of $x$, or require an overwhelmingly large samples from each conditional distribution.   To address these challenges, we propose a novel approach which employs a new min-max reformulation of the learning from conditional distribution problem. With such new reformulation, we only need to deal with the joint distribution $p(z,x)$. We also design an efficient learning algorithm, Embedding-SGD, and establish theoretical sample complexity for such problems. Finally, our numerical experiments on both synthetic and real-world datasets show that the proposed approach can significantly improve over the existing algorithms.

  A matrix $M: A \times X \rightarrow \{-1,1\}$ corresponds to the following learning problem: An unknown element $x \in X$ is chosen uniformly at random. A learner tries to learn $x$ from a stream of samples, $(a_1, b_1), (a_2, b_2) \ldots$, where for every $i$, $a_i \in A$ is chosen uniformly at random and $b_i = M(a_i,x)$.   Assume that $k,\ell, r$ are such that any submatrix of $M$ of at least $2^{-k} \cdot |A|$ rows and at least $2^{-\ell} \cdot |X|$ columns, has a bias of at most $2^{-r}$. We show that any learning algorithm for the learning problem corresponding to $M$ requires either a memory of size at least $\Omega\left(k \cdot \ell \right)$, or at least $2^{\Omega(r)}$ samples. The result holds even if the learner has an exponentially small success probability (of $2^{-\Omega(r)}$).   In particular, this shows that for a large class of learning problems, any learning algorithm requires either a memory of size at least $\Omega\left((\log |X|) \cdot (\log |A|)\right)$ or an exponential number of samples, achieving a tight $\Omega\left((\log |X|) \cdot (\log |A|)\right)$ lower bound on the size of the memory, rather than a bound of $\Omega\left(\min\left\{(\log |X|)^2,(\log |A|)^2\right\}\right)$ obtained in previous works [R17,MM17b].   Moreover, our result implies all previous memory-samples lower bounds, as well as a number of new applications.   Our proof builds on [R17] that gave a general technique for proving memory-samples lower bounds.

  This work exploits action equivariance for representation learning in reinforcement learning. Equivariance under actions states that transitions in the input space are mirrored by equivalent transitions in latent space, while the map and transition functions should also commute. We introduce a contrastive loss function that enforces action equivariance on the learned representations. We prove that when our loss is zero, we have a homomorphism of a deterministic Markov Decision Process (MDP). Learning equivariant maps leads to structured latent spaces, allowing us to build a model on which we plan through value iteration. We show experimentally that for deterministic MDPs, the optimal policy in the abstract MDP can be successfully lifted to the original MDP. Moreover, the approach easily adapts to changes in the goal states. Empirically, we show that in such MDPs, we obtain better representations in fewer epochs compared to representation learning approaches using reconstructions, while generalizing better to new goals than model-free approaches.

  Update order is one of the major design choices of block decomposition algorithms. There are at least two classes of deterministic update orders: nonsymmetric (e.g. cyclic order) and symmetric (e.g. Gaussian back substitution or symmetric Gauss-Seidel). Recently, Coordinate Descent (CD) with cyclic order was shown to be $O(n^2)$ times slower than randomized versions in the worst-case. A natural question arises: can the symmetrized orders achieve faster convergence rates than the cyclic order, or even getting close to the randomized versions? In this paper, we give a negative answer to this question. We show that both Gaussian back substitution (GBS) and symmetric Gauss-Seidel (sGS) suffer from the same slow convergence issue as the cyclic order in the worst case. In particular, we prove that for unconstrained problems, both GBS-CD and sGS-CD can be $O(n^2)$ times slower than R-CD. Despite unconstrained problems, we also empirically study linearly constrained problems with quadratic objective: we empirically demonstrate that the convergence speed of GBS-ADMM and sGS-ADMM can be roughly $O(n^2)$ times slower than randomly permuted ADMM.

  Most environmental data come from a minority of well-monitored sites. An ongoing challenge in the environmental sciences is transferring knowledge from monitored sites to unmonitored sites. Here, we demonstrate a novel transfer learning framework that accurately predicts depth-specific temperature in unmonitored lakes (targets) by borrowing models from well-monitored lakes (sources). This method, Meta Transfer Learning (MTL), builds a meta-learning model to predict transfer performance from candidate source models to targets using lake attributes and candidates' past performance. We constructed source models at 145 well-monitored lakes using calibrated process-based modeling (PB) and a recently developed approach called process-guided deep learning (PGDL). We applied MTL to either PB or PGDL source models (PB-MTL or PGDL-MTL, respectively) to predict temperatures in 305 target lakes treated as unmonitored in the Upper Midwestern United States. We show significantly improved performance relative to the uncalibrated process-based General Lake Model, where the median RMSE for the target lakes is $2.52^{\circ}C$. PB-MTL yielded a median RMSE of $2.43^{\circ}C$; PGDL-MTL yielded $2.16^{\circ}C$; and a PGDL-MTL ensemble of nine sources per target yielded $1.88^{\circ}C$. For sparsely monitored target lakes, PGDL-MTL often outperformed PGDL models trained on the target lakes themselves. Differences in maximum depth between the source and target were consistently the most important predictors. Our approach readily scales to thousands of lakes in the Midwestern United States, demonstrating that MTL with meaningful predictor variables and high-quality source models is a promising approach for many kinds of unmonitored systems and environmental variables.

  Clustering is the problem of separating a set of objects into groups (called clusters) so that objects within the same cluster are more similar to each other than to those in different clusters. Spectral clustering is a now well-known method for clustering which utilizes the spectrum of the data similarity matrix to perform this separation. Since the method relies on solving an eigenvector problem, it is computationally expensive for large datasets. To overcome this constraint, approximation methods have been developed which aim to reduce running time while maintaining accurate classification. In this article, we summarize and experimentally evaluate several approximation methods for spectral clustering. From an applications standpoint, we employ spectral clustering to solve the so-called attrition problem, where one aims to identify from a set of employees those who are likely to voluntarily leave the company from those who are not. Our study sheds light on the empirical performance of existing approximate spectral clustering methods and shows the applicability of these methods in an important business optimization related problem.

  In this paper, we propose a systematic solution to the problem of scheduling delay-sensitive media data for transmission over time-varying wireless channels. We first formulate the dynamic scheduling problem as a Markov decision process (MDP) that explicitly considers the users' heterogeneous multimedia data characteristics (e.g. delay deadlines, distortion impacts and dependencies etc.) and time-varying channel conditions, which are not simultaneously considered in state-of-the-art packet scheduling algorithms. This formulation allows us to perform foresighted decisions to schedule multiple data units for transmission at each time in order to optimize the long-term utilities of the multimedia applications. The heterogeneity of the media data enables us to express the transmission priorities between the different data units as a priority graph, which is a directed acyclic graph (DAG). This priority graph provides us with an elegant structure to decompose the multi-data unit foresighted decision at each time into multiple single-data unit foresighted decisions which can be performed sequentially, from the high priority data units to the low priority data units, thereby significantly reducing the computation complexity. When the statistical knowledge of the multimedia data characteristics and channel conditions is unknown a priori, we develop a low-complexity online learning algorithm to update the value functions which capture the impact of the current decision on the future utility. The simulation results show that the proposed solution significantly outperforms existing state-of-the-art scheduling solutions.

  A method for nonlinear topology identification is proposed, based on the assumption that a collection of time series are generated in two steps: i) a vector autoregressive process in a latent space, and ii) a nonlinear, component-wise, monotonically increasing observation mapping. The latter mappings are assumed invertible, and are modelled as shallow neural networks, so that their inverse can be numerically evaluated, and their parameters can be learned using a technique inspired in deep learning. Due to the function inversion, the back-propagation step is not straightforward, and this paper explains the steps needed to calculate the gradients applying implicit differentiation. Whereas the model explainability is the same as that for linear VAR processes, preliminary numerical tests show that the prediction error becomes smaller.

  Single image de-hazing is a challenging problem, and it is far from solved. Most current solutions require paired image datasets that include both hazy images and their corresponding haze-free ground-truth images. However, in reality, lighting conditions and other factors can produce a range of haze-free images that can serve as ground truth for a hazy image, and a single ground truth image cannot capture that range. This limits the scalability and practicality of paired image datasets in real-world applications. In this paper, we focus on unpaired single image de-hazing and we do not rely on the ground truth image or physical scattering model. We reduce the image de-hazing problem to an image-to-image translation problem and propose a dehazing Global-Local Cycle-consistent Generative Adversarial Network (Dehaze-GLCGAN). Generator network of Dehaze-GLCGAN combines an encoder-decoder architecture with residual blocks to better recover the haze free scene. We also employ a global-local discriminator structure to deal with spatially varying haze. Through ablation study, we demonstrate the effectiveness of different factors in the performance of the proposed network. Our extensive experiments over three benchmark datasets show that our network outperforms previous work in terms of PSNR and SSIM while being trained on smaller amount of data compared to other methods.

  When developing models for regulated decision making, sensitive features like age, race and gender cannot be used and must be obscured from model developers to prevent bias. However, the remaining features still need to be tested for correlation with sensitive features, which can only be done with the knowledge of those features. We resolve this dilemma using a fully homomorphic encryption scheme, allowing model developers to train linear regression and logistic regression models and test them for possible bias without ever revealing the sensitive features in the clear. We demonstrate how it can be applied to leave-one-out regression testing, and show using the adult income data set that our method is practical to run.

  Testing is an important part of tackling the COVID-19 pandemic. Availability of testing is a bottleneck due to constrained resources and effective prioritization of individuals is necessary. Here, we discuss the impact of different prioritization policies on COVID-19 patient discovery and the ability of governments and health organizations to use the results for effective decision making. We suggest a framework for testing that balances the maximal discovery of positive individuals with the need for population-based surveillance aimed at understanding disease spread and characteristics. This framework draws from similar approaches to prioritization in the domain of cyber-security based on ranking individuals using a risk score and then reserving a portion of the capacity for random sampling. This approach is an application of Multi-Armed-Bandits maximizing exploration/exploitation of the underlying distribution. We find that individuals can be ranked for effective testing using a few simple features, and that ranking them using such models we can capture 65% (CI: 64.7%-68.3%) of the positive individuals using less than 20% of the testing capacity or 92.1% (CI: 91.1%-93.2%) of positives individuals using 70% of the capacity, allowing reserving a significant portion of the tests for population studies. Our approach allows experts and decision-makers to tailor the resulting policies as needed allowing transparency into the ranking policy and the ability to understand the disease spread in the population and react quickly and in an informed manner.

  The goal of a decision-based adversarial attack on a trained model is to generate adversarial examples based solely on observing output labels returned by the targeted model. We develop HopSkipJumpAttack, a family of algorithms based on a novel estimate of the gradient direction using binary information at the decision boundary. The proposed family includes both untargeted and targeted attacks optimized for $\ell_2$ and $\ell_\infty$ similarity metrics respectively. Theoretical analysis is provided for the proposed algorithms and the gradient direction estimate. Experiments show HopSkipJumpAttack requires significantly fewer model queries than Boundary Attack. It also achieves competitive performance in attacking several widely-used defense mechanisms. (HopSkipJumpAttack was named Boundary Attack++ in a previous version of the preprint.)

  A new approach to the sparse Canonical Correlation Analysis (sCCA)is proposed with the aim of discovering interpretable associations in very high-dimensional multi-view, i.e.observations of multiple sets of variables on the same subjects, problems. Inspired by the sparse PCA approach of Journee et al. (2010), we also show that the sparse CCA formulation, while non-convex, is equivalent to a maximization program of a convex objective over a compact set for which we propose a first-order gradient method. This result helps us reduce the search space drastically to the boundaries of the set. Consequently, we propose a two-step algorithm, where we first infer the sparsity pattern of the canonical directions using our fast algorithm, then we shrink each view, i.e. observations of a set of covariates, to contain observations on the sets of covariates selected in the previous step, and compute their canonical directions via any CCA algorithm. We also introduceDirected Sparse CCA, which is able to find associations which are aligned with a specified experiment design, andMulti-View sCCA which is used to discover associations between multiple sets of covariates. Our simulations establish the superior convergence properties and computational efficiency of our algorithm as well as accuracy in terms of the canonical correlation and its ability to recover the supports of the canonical directions. We study the associations between metabolomics, trasncriptomics and microbiomics in a multi-omic study usingMuLe, which is an R-package that implements our approach, in order to form hypotheses on mechanisms of adaptations of Drosophila Melanogaster to high doses of environmental toxicants, specifically Atrazine, which is a commonly used chemical fertilizer.

  Whole gland (WG) segmentation of the prostate plays a crucial role in detection, staging and treatment planning of prostate cancer (PCa). Despite promise shown by deep learning (DL) methods, they rely on the availability of a considerable amount of annotated data. Augmentation techniques such as translation and rotation of images present an alternative to increase data availability. Nevertheless, the amount of information provided by the transformed data is limited due to the correlation between the generated data and the original. Based on the recent success of generative adversarial networks (GAN) in producing synthetic images for other domains as well as in the medical domain, we present a pipeline to generate WG segmentation masks and synthesize T2-weighted MRI of the prostate based on a publicly available multi-center dataset. Following, we use the generated data as a form of data augmentation. Results show an improvement in the quality of the WG segmentation when compared to standard augmentation techniques.

  Tree-based machine learning models such as random forests, decision trees, and gradient boosted trees are the most popular non-linear predictive models used in practice today, yet comparatively little attention has been paid to explaining their predictions. Here we significantly improve the interpretability of tree-based models through three main contributions: 1) The first polynomial time algorithm to compute optimal explanations based on game theory. 2) A new type of explanation that directly measures local feature interaction effects. 3) A new set of tools for understanding global model structure based on combining many local explanations of each prediction. We apply these tools to three medical machine learning problems and show how combining many high-quality local explanations allows us to represent global structure while retaining local faithfulness to the original model. These tools enable us to i) identify high magnitude but low frequency non-linear mortality risk factors in the general US population, ii) highlight distinct population sub-groups with shared risk characteristics, iii) identify non-linear interaction effects among risk factors for chronic kidney disease, and iv) monitor a machine learning model deployed in a hospital by identifying which features are degrading the model's performance over time. Given the popularity of tree-based machine learning models, these improvements to their interpretability have implications across a broad set of domains.

  Many assumptions in the federated learning literature present a best-case scenario that can not be satisfied in most real-world applications. An asynchronous setting reflects the realistic environment in which federated learning methods must be able to operate reliably. Besides varying amounts of non-IID data at participants, the asynchronous setting models heterogeneous client participation due to available computational power and battery constraints and also accounts for delayed communications between clients and the server. To reduce the communication overhead associated with asynchronous online federated learning (ASO-Fed), we use the principles of partial-sharing-based communication. In this manner, we reduce the communication load of the participants and, therefore, render participation in the learning task more accessible. We prove the convergence of the proposed ASO-Fed and provide simulations to analyze its behavior further. The simulations reveal that, in the asynchronous setting, it is possible to achieve the same convergence as the federated stochastic gradient (Online-FedSGD) while reducing the communication tenfold.

  We extract an optimal subset of architectural parameters for the BERT architecture from Devlin et al. (2018) by applying recent breakthroughs in algorithms for neural architecture search. This optimal subset, which we refer to as "Bort", is demonstrably smaller, having an effective (that is, not counting the embedding layer) size of $5.5\%$ the original BERT-large architecture, and $16\%$ of the net size. Bort is also able to be pretrained in $288$ GPU hours, which is $1.2\%$ of the time required to pretrain the highest-performing BERT parametric architectural variant, RoBERTa-large (Liu et al., 2019), and about $33\%$ of that of the world-record, in GPU hours, required to train BERT-large on the same hardware. It is also $7.9$x faster on a CPU, as well as being better performing than other compressed variants of the architecture, and some of the non-compressed variants: it obtains performance improvements of between $0.3\%$ and $31\%$, absolute, with respect to BERT-large, on multiple public natural language understanding (NLU) benchmarks.

  Machine learning models' goal is to make correct predictions for specific tasks by learning important properties and patterns from data. By doing so, there is a chance that the model learns properties that are unrelated to its primary task. Property Inference Attacks exploit this and aim to infer from a given model (\ie the target model) properties about the training dataset seemingly unrelated to the model's primary goal. If the training data is sensitive, such an attack could lead to privacy leakage. This paper investigates the influence of the target model's complexity on the accuracy of this type of attack, focusing on convolutional neural network classifiers. We perform attacks on models that are trained on facial images to predict whether someone's mouth is open. Our attacks' goal is to infer whether the training dataset is balanced gender-wise. Our findings reveal that the risk of a privacy breach is present independently of the target model's complexity: for all studied architectures, the attack's accuracy is clearly over the baseline. We discuss the implication of the property inference on personal data in the light of Data Protection Regulations and Guidelines.

  The Area Under the ROC Curve (AUC) is a widely used performance measure for imbalanced classification arising from many application domains where high-dimensional sparse data is abundant. In such cases, each $d$ dimensional sample has only $k$ non-zero features with $k \ll d$, and data arrives sequentially in a streaming form. Current online AUC optimization algorithms have high per-iteration cost $\mathcal{O}(d)$ and usually produce non-sparse solutions in general, and hence are not suitable for handling the data challenge mentioned above.   In this paper, we aim to directly optimize the AUC score for high-dimensional sparse datasets under online learning setting and propose a new algorithm, \textsc{FTRL-AUC}. Our proposed algorithm can process data in an online fashion with a much cheaper per-iteration cost $\mathcal{O}(k)$, making it amenable for high-dimensional sparse streaming data analysis. Our new algorithmic design critically depends on a novel reformulation of the U-statistics AUC objective function as the empirical saddle point reformulation, and the innovative introduction of the "lazy update" rule so that the per-iteration complexity is dramatically reduced from $\mathcal{O}(d)$ to $\mathcal{O}(k)$. Furthermore, \textsc{FTRL-AUC} can inherently capture sparsity more effectively by applying a generalized Follow-The-Regularized-Leader (FTRL) framework.   Experiments on real-world datasets demonstrate that \textsc{FTRL-AUC} significantly improves both run time and model sparsity while achieving competitive AUC scores compared with the state-of-the-art methods. Comparison with the online learning method for logistic loss demonstrates that \textsc{FTRL-AUC} achieves higher AUC scores especially when datasets are imbalanced.

  Sequential decision making, commonly formalized as Markov Decision Process (MDP) optimization, is a important challenge in artificial intelligence. Two key approaches to this problem are reinforcement learning (RL) and planning. This paper presents a survey of the integration of both fields, better known as model-based reinforcement learning. Model-based RL has two main steps. First, we systematically cover approaches to dynamics model learning, including challenges like dealing with stochasticity, uncertainty, partial observability, and temporal abstraction. Second, we present a systematic categorization of planning-learning integration, including aspects like: where to start planning, what budgets to allocate to planning and real data collection, how to plan, and how to integrate planning in the learning and acting loop. After these two sections, we also discuss implicit model-based RL as an end-to-end alternative for model learning and planning, and we cover the potential benefits of model-based RL. Along the way, the survey also draws connections to several related RL fields, like hierarchical RL and transfer learning. Altogether, the survey presents a broad conceptual overview of the combination of planning and learning for MDP optimization.

  As witnessed in the past year, where the world was brought to the ground by a pandemic, fighting Life-threatening diseases have found greater focus than ever. The first step in fighting a disease is to diagnose it at the right time. Diabetes has been affecting people for a long time and is growing among people faster than ever. The number of people who have Diabetes reached 422 million in 2018, as reported by WHO, and the global prevalence of diabetes among adults above the age of 18 has risen to 8.5%. Now Diabetes is a disease that shows no or very few symptoms among the people affected by it for a long time, and even in some cases, people realize they have it when they have lost any chance of controlling it. So getting Diabetes diagnosed at an early stage can make a huge difference in how one can approach curing it. Moving in this direction in this paper, we have designed a liquid machine learning approach to detect Diabetes with no cost using deep learning. In this work, we have used a dataset of 520 instances. Our approach shows a significant improvement in the previous state-of-the-art results. Its power to generalize well on small dataset deals with the critical problem of lesser data in medical sciences.

  Many machine learning and data science tasks require solving non-convex optimization problems. When the loss function is a sum of multiple terms, a popular method is the stochastic gradient descent. Viewed as a process for sampling the loss function landscape, the stochastic gradient descent is known to prefer flat minima. Though this is desired for certain optimization problems such as in deep learning, it causes issues when the goal is to find the global minimum, especially if the global minimum resides in a sharp valley.   Illustrated with a simple motivating example, we show that the fundamental reason is that the difference in the Lipschitz constants of multiple terms in the loss function causes stochastic gradient descent to experience different variances at different minima. In order to mitigate this effect and perform faithful optimization, we propose a combined resampling-reweighting scheme to balance the variance at local minima and extend to general loss functions. We explain from the numerical stability perspective how the proposed scheme is more likely to select the true global minimum, and the local convergence analysis perspective how it converges to a minimum faster when compared with the vanilla stochastic gradient descent. Experiments from robust statistics and computational chemistry are provided to demonstrate the theoretical findings.

  Deep learning architectures have an extremely high-capacity for modeling complex data in a wide variety of domains. However, these architectures have been limited in their ability to support complex prediction problems using insurance claims data, such as readmission at 30 days, mainly due to data sparsity issue. Consequently, classical machine learning methods, especially those that embed domain knowledge in handcrafted features, are often on par with, and sometimes outperform, deep learning approaches. In this paper, we illustrate how the potential of deep learning can be achieved by blending domain knowledge within deep learning architectures to predict adverse events at hospital discharge, including readmissions. More specifically, we introduce a learning architecture that fuses a representation of patient data computed by a self-attention based recurrent neural network, with clinically relevant features. We conduct extensive experiments on a large claims dataset and show that the blended method outperforms the standard machine learning approaches.

  For centuries, scientists have observed nature to understand the laws that govern the physical world. The traditional process of turning observations into physical understanding is slow. Imperfect models are constructed and tested to explain relationships in data. Powerful new algorithms are available that can enable computers to learn physics by observing images and videos. Inspired by this idea, instead of training machine learning models using physical quantities, we trained them using images, that is, pixel information. For this work, and as a proof of concept, the physics of interest are wind-driven spatial patterns. Examples of these phenomena include features in Aeolian dunes and the deposition of volcanic ash, wildfire smoke, and air pollution plumes. We assume that the spatial patterns were collected by an imaging device that records the magnitude of the logarithm of deposition as a red, green, blue (RGB) color image with channels containing values ranging from 0 to 255. In this paper, we explore deep convolutional neural network-based autoencoders to exploit relationships in wind-driven spatial patterns, which commonly occur in geosciences, and reduce their dimensionality. Reducing the data dimension size with an encoder allows us to train regression models linking geographic and meteorological scalar input quantities to the encoded space. Once this is achieved, full predictive spatial patterns are reconstructed using the decoder. We demonstrate this approach on images of spatial deposition from a pollution source, where the encoder compresses the dimensionality to 0.02% of the original size and the full predictive model performance on test data achieves an accuracy of 92%.

Paraphrase generation is a difficult problem. This is not only because of the limitations in text generation capabilities but also due that to the lack of a proper definition of what qualifies as a paraphrase and corresponding metrics to measure how good it is. Metrics for evaluation of paraphrasing quality is an on going research problem. Most of the existing metrics in use having been borrowed from other tasks do not capture the complete essence of a good paraphrase, and often fail at borderline-cases. In this work, we propose a novel metric $ROUGE_P$ to measure the quality of paraphrases along the dimensions of adequacy, novelty and fluency. We also provide empirical evidence to show that the current natural language generation metrics are insufficient to measure these desired properties of a good paraphrase. We look at paraphrase model fine-tuning and generation from the lens of metrics to gain a deeper understanding of what it takes to generate and evaluate a good paraphrase.

  This paper considers two-player zero-sum finite-horizon Markov games with simultaneous moves. The study focuses on the challenging settings where the value function or the model is parameterized by general function classes. Provably efficient algorithms for both decoupled and {coordinated} settings are developed. In the {decoupled} setting where the agent controls a single player and plays against an arbitrary opponent, we propose a new model-free algorithm. The sample complexity is governed by the Minimax Eluder dimension -- a new dimension of the function class in Markov games. As a special case, this method improves the state-of-the-art algorithm by a $\sqrt{d}$ factor in the regret when the reward function and transition kernel are parameterized with $d$-dimensional linear features. In the {coordinated} setting where both players are controlled by the agent, we propose a model-based algorithm and a model-free algorithm. In the model-based algorithm, we prove that sample complexity can be bounded by a generalization of Witness rank to Markov games. The model-free algorithm enjoys a $\sqrt{K}$-regret upper bound where $K$ is the number of episodes.

  Models for audio generation are typically trained on hours of recordings. Here, we illustrate that capturing the essence of an audio source is typically possible from as little as a few tens of seconds from a single training signal. Specifically, we present a GAN-based generative model that can be trained on one short audio signal from any domain (e.g. speech, music, etc.) and does not require pre-training or any other form of external supervision. Once trained, our model can generate random samples of arbitrary duration that maintain semantic similarity to the training waveform, yet exhibit new compositions of its audio primitives. This enables a long line of interesting applications, including generating new jazz improvisations or new a-cappella rap variants based on a single short example, producing coherent modifications to famous songs (e.g. adding a new verse to a Beatles song based solely on the original recording), filling-in of missing parts (inpainting), extending the bandwidth of a speech signal (super-resolution), and enhancing old recordings without access to any clean training example. We show that in all cases, no more than 20 seconds of training audio commonly suffice for our model to achieve state-of-the-art results. This is despite its complete lack of prior knowledge about the nature of audio signals in general.

  Readability assessment aims to automatically classify text by the level appropriate for learning readers. Traditional approaches to this task utilize a variety of linguistically motivated features paired with simple machine learning models. More recent methods have improved performance by discarding these features and utilizing deep learning models. However, it is unknown whether augmenting deep learning models with linguistically motivated features would improve performance further. This paper combines these two approaches with the goal of improving overall model performance and addressing this question. Evaluating on two large readability corpora, we find that, given sufficient training data, augmenting deep learning models with linguistically motivated features does not improve state-of-the-art performance. Our results provide preliminary evidence for the hypothesis that the state-of-the-art deep learning models represent linguistic features of the text related to readability. Future research on the nature of representations formed in these models can shed light on the learned features and their relations to linguistically motivated ones hypothesized in traditional approaches.

  The paper addresses the problem of optimizing a class of composite functions on Riemannian manifolds and a new first order optimization algorithm (FOA) with a fast convergence rate is proposed. Through the theoretical analysis for FOA, it has been proved that the algorithm has quadratic convergence. The experiments in the matrix completion task show that FOA has better performance than other first order optimization methods on Riemannian manifolds. A fast subspace pursuit method based on FOA is proposed to solve the low-rank representation model based on augmented Lagrange method on the low rank matrix variety. Experimental results on synthetic and real data sets are presented to demonstrate that both FOA and SP-RPRG(ALM) can achieve superior performance in terms of faster convergence and higher accuracy.

  Like most learning algorithms, the multilayer perceptrons (MLP) is designed to learn a vector of parameters from data. However, in certain scenarios we are interested in learning structured parameters (predictions) in the form of symmetric positive definite matrices. Here, we introduce a variant of the MLP, referred to as the matrix MLP, that is specialized at learning symmetric positive definite matrices. We also present an application of the model within the context of the variational autoencoder (VAE). Our formulation of the VAE extends the vanilla formulation to the cases where the recognition and the generative networks can be from the parametric family of distributions with dense covariance matrices. Two specific examples are discussed in more detail: the dense covariance Gaussian and its generalization, the power exponential distribution. Our new developments are illustrated using both synthetic and real data.

  This paper introduces a novel statistical regression framework that allows the incorporation of consistency constraints. A linear and nonlinear (kernel-based) formulation are introduced, and both imply closed-form analytical solutions. The models exploit all the information from a set of drivers while being maximally independent of a set of auxiliary, protected variables. We successfully illustrate the performance in the estimation of chlorophyll content.

  Many optimizers have been proposed for training deep neural networks, and they often have multiple hyperparameters, which make it tricky to benchmark their performance. In this work, we propose a new benchmarking protocol to evaluate both end-to-end efficiency (training a model from scratch without knowing the best hyperparameter) and data-addition training efficiency (the previously selected hyperparameters are used for periodically re-training the model with newly collected data). For end-to-end efficiency, unlike previous work that assumes random hyperparameter tuning, which over-emphasizes the tuning time, we propose to evaluate with a bandit hyperparameter tuning strategy. A human study is conducted to show that our evaluation protocol matches human tuning behavior better than the random search. For data-addition training, we propose a new protocol for assessing the hyperparameter sensitivity to data shift. We then apply the proposed benchmarking framework to 7 optimizers and various tasks, including computer vision, natural language processing, reinforcement learning, and graph mining. Our results show that there is no clear winner across all the tasks.

  Building in silico models to predict chemical properties and activities is a crucial step in drug discovery. However, limited labeled data often hinders the application of deep learning in this setting. Meanwhile advances in meta-learning have enabled state-of-the-art performances in few-shot learning benchmarks, naturally prompting the question: Can meta-learning improve deep learning performance in low-resource drug discovery projects? In this work, we assess the transferability of graph neural networks initializations learned by the Model-Agnostic Meta-Learning (MAML) algorithm - and its variants FO-MAML and ANIL - for chemical properties and activities tasks. Using the ChEMBL20 dataset to emulate low-resource settings, our benchmark shows that meta-initializations perform comparably to or outperform multi-task pre-training baselines on 16 out of 20 in-distribution tasks and on all out-of-distribution tasks, providing an average improvement in AUPRC of 11.2% and 26.9% respectively. Finally, we observe that meta-initializations consistently result in the best performing models across fine-tuning sets with $k \in \{16, 32, 64, 128, 256\}$ instances.

  Learning rich visual representations using contrastive self-supervised learning has been extremely successful. However, it is still a major question whether we could use a similar approach to learn superior auditory representations. In this paper, we expand on prior work (SimCLR) to learn better auditory representations. We (1) introduce various data augmentations suitable for auditory data and evaluate their impact on predictive performance, (2) show that training with time-frequency audio features substantially improves the quality of the learned representations compared to raw signals, and (3) demonstrate that training with both supervised and contrastive losses simultaneously improves the learned representations compared to self-supervised pre-training followed by supervised fine-tuning. We illustrate that by combining all these methods and with substantially less labeled data, our framework (CLAR) achieves significant improvement on prediction performance compared to supervised approach. Moreover, compared to self-supervised approach, our framework converges faster with significantly better representations.

  It is commonly believed that networks cannot be both accurate and robust, that gaining robustness means losing accuracy. It is also generally believed that, unless making networks larger, network architectural elements would otherwise matter little in improving adversarial robustness. Here we present evidence to challenge these common beliefs by a careful study about adversarial training. Our key observation is that the widely-used ReLU activation function significantly weakens adversarial training due to its non-smooth nature. Hence we propose smooth adversarial training (SAT), in which we replace ReLU with its smooth approximations to strengthen adversarial training. The purpose of smooth activation functions in SAT is to allow it to find harder adversarial examples and compute better gradient updates during adversarial training.   Compared to standard adversarial training, SAT improves adversarial robustness for "free", i.e., no drop in accuracy and no increase in computational cost. For example, without introducing additional computations, SAT significantly enhances ResNet-50's robustness from 33.0% to 42.3%, while also improving accuracy by 0.9% on ImageNet. SAT also works well with larger networks: it helps EfficientNet-L1 to achieve 82.2% accuracy and 58.6% robustness on ImageNet, outperforming the previous state-of-the-art defense by 9.5% for accuracy and 11.6% for robustness. Models are available at https://github.com/cihangxie/SmoothAdversarialTraining.

  In this short article, we showcase the derivation of the optimal (minimum error variance) estimator, when one part of the stochastic LTI system output is not measured but is able to be predicted from the measured system outputs. Similar derivations have been done before but not using state-space representation.

  Many real-world applications involve data from multiple modalities and thus exhibit the view heterogeneity. For example, user modeling on social media might leverage both the topology of the underlying social network and the content of the users' posts; in the medical domain, multiple views could be X-ray images taken at different poses. To date, various techniques have been proposed to achieve promising results, such as canonical correlation analysis based methods, etc. In the meanwhile, it is critical for decision-makers to be able to understand the prediction results from these methods. For example, given the diagnostic result that a model provided based on the X-ray images of a patient at different poses, the doctor needs to know why the model made such a prediction. However, state-of-the-art techniques usually suffer from the inability to utilize the complementary information of each view and to explain the predictions in an interpretable manner.   To address these issues, in this paper, we propose a deep co-attention network for multi-view subspace learning, which aims to extract both the common information and the complementary information in an adversarial setting and provide robust interpretations behind the prediction to the end-users via the co-attention mechanism. In particular, it uses a novel cross reconstruction loss and leverages the label information to guide the construction of the latent representation by incorporating the classifier into our model. This improves the quality of latent representation and accelerates the convergence speed. Finally, we develop an efficient iterative algorithm to find the optimal encoders and discriminator, which are evaluated extensively on synthetic and real-world data sets. We also conduct a case study to demonstrate how the proposed method robustly interprets the predictions on an image data set.

  Assessing pain in patients unable to speak (also called non-verbal patients) is extremely complicated and often is done by clinical judgement. However, this method is not reliable since patients vital signs can fluctuate significantly due to other underlying medical conditions. No objective diagnosis test exists to date that can assist medical practitioners in the diagnosis of pain. In this study we propose the use of functional near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) and deep learning for the assessment of human pain. The aim of this study is to explore the use deep learning to automatically learn features from fNIRS raw data to reduce the level of subjectivity and domain knowledge required in the design of hand-crafted features. Four deep learning models were evaluated, multilayer perceptron (MLP), forward and backward long short-term memory net-works (LSTM), and bidirectional LSTM. The results showed that the Bi-LSTM model achieved the highest accuracy (90.6%)and faster than the other three models. These results advance knowledge in pain assessment using neuroimaging as a method of diagnosis and represent a step closer to developing a physiologically based diagnosis of human pain that will benefit vulnerable populations who cannot self-report pain.

  Patch adversarial attacks on images, in which the attacker can distort pixels within a region of bounded size, are an important threat model since they provide a quantitative model for physical adversarial attacks. In this paper, we introduce a certifiable defense against patch attacks that guarantees for a given image and patch attack size, no patch adversarial examples exist. Our method is related to the broad class of randomized smoothing robustness schemes which provide high-confidence probabilistic robustness certificates. By exploiting the fact that patch attacks are more constrained than general sparse attacks, we derive meaningfully large robustness certificates against them. Additionally, in contrast to smoothing-based defenses against L_p and sparse attacks, our defense method against patch attacks is de-randomized, yielding improved, deterministic certificates. Compared to the existing patch certification method proposed by Chiang et al. (2020), which relies on interval bound propagation, our method can be trained significantly faster, achieves high clean and certified robust accuracy on CIFAR-10, and provides certificates at ImageNet scale. For example, for a 5-by-5 patch attack on CIFAR-10, our method achieves up to around 57.6% certified accuracy (with a classifier with around 83.8% clean accuracy), compared to at most 30.3% certified accuracy for the existing method (with a classifier with around 47.8% clean accuracy). Our results effectively establish a new state-of-the-art of certifiable defense against patch attacks on CIFAR-10 and ImageNet. Code is available at https://github.com/alevine0/patchSmoothing.

  We present MOGPTK, a Python package for multi-channel data modelling using Gaussian processes (GP). The aim of this toolkit is to make multi-output GP (MOGP) models accessible to researchers, data scientists, and practitioners alike. MOGPTK uses a Python front-end, relies on the GPflow suite and is built on a TensorFlow back-end, thus enabling GPU-accelerated training. The toolkit facilitates implementing the entire pipeline of GP modelling, including data loading, parameter initialization, model learning, parameter interpretation, up to data imputation and extrapolation. MOGPTK implements the main multi-output covariance kernels from literature, as well as spectral-based parameter initialization strategies. The source code, tutorials and examples in the form of Jupyter notebooks, together with the API documentation, can be found at http://github.com/GAMES-UChile/mogptk

  We apply the canonical forms (barcodes) of gradient Morse complexes to explore topology of loss surfaces. We present a novel algorithm for calculations of the objective function's barcodes of local minima. We have conducted experiments for calculating barcodes of local minima for benchmark functions and for loss surfaces of neural networks. Our experiments confirm two principal observations for loss surfaces of neural networks. First, the barcodes of local minima are located in a small lower part of the range of values of loss function of neural networks. Second, increase of the neural network's depth brings down the barcodes of local minima. This has natural implications for the neural network learning and the generalization ability.

  Recommender systems have become an essential instrument in a wide range of industries to personalize the user experience. A significant issue that has captured both researchers' and industry experts' attention is the cold start problem for new items. In this work, we present a graph neural network recommender system using item hierarchy graphs and a bespoke architecture to handle the cold start case for items. The experimental study on multiple datasets and millions of users and interactions indicates that our method achieves better forecasting quality than the state-of-the-art with a comparable computational time.

  We study a security threat to reinforcement learning where an attacker poisons the learning environment to force the agent into executing a target policy chosen by the attacker. As a victim, we consider RL agents whose objective is to find a policy that maximizes reward in infinite-horizon problem settings. The attacker can manipulate the rewards and the transition dynamics in the learning environment at training-time, and is interested in doing so in a stealthy manner. We propose an optimization framework for finding an optimal stealthy attack for different measures of attack cost. We provide lower/upper bounds on the attack cost, and instantiate our attacks in two settings: (i) an offline setting where the agent is doing planning in the poisoned environment, and (ii) an online setting where the agent is learning a policy with poisoned feedback. Our results show that the attacker can easily succeed in teaching any target policy to the victim under mild conditions and highlight a significant security threat to reinforcement learning agents in practice.

  Application of neural network architectures for financial prediction has been actively studied in recent years. This paper presents a comparative study that investigates and compares feed-forward neural network (FNN) and adaptive neural fuzzy inference system (ANFIS) on stock prediction using fundamental financial ratios. The study is designed to evaluate the performance of each architecture based on the relative return of the selected portfolios with respect to the benchmark stock index. The results show that both architectures possess the ability to separate winners and losers from a sample universe of stocks, and the selected portfolios outperform the benchmark. Our study argues that FNN shows superior performance over ANFIS.

  Estimating and rectifying the orientation angle of any image is a pretty challenging task. Initial work used the hand engineering features for this purpose, where after the invention of deep learning using convolution-based neural network showed significant improvement in this problem. However, this paper shows that the combination of CNN and a custom loss function specially designed for angles lead to a state-of-the-art results. This includes the estimation of the orientation angle of any image or document at any degree (0 to 360 degree),

  Automatic blood vessel extraction from 3D medical images is crucial for vascular disease diagnoses. Existing methods based on convolutional neural networks (CNNs) may suffer from discontinuities of extracted vessels when segmenting such thin tubular structures from 3D images. We argue that preserving the continuity of extracted vessels requires to take into account the global geometry. However, 3D convolutions are computationally inefficient, which prohibits the 3D CNNs from sufficiently large receptive fields to capture the global cues in the entire image. In this work, we propose a hybrid representation learning approach to address this challenge. The main idea is to use CNNs to learn local appearances of vessels in image crops while using another point-cloud network to learn the global geometry of vessels in the entire image. In inference, the proposed approach extracts local segments of vessels using CNNs, classifies each segment based on global geometry using the point-cloud network, and finally connects all the segments that belong to the same vessel using the shortest-path algorithm. This combination results in an efficient, fully-automatic and template-free approach to centerline extraction from 3D images. We validate the proposed approach on CTA datasets and demonstrate its superior performance compared to both traditional and CNN-based baselines.

  We propose to exploit {\em reconstruction} as a layer-local training signal for deep learning. Reconstructions can be propagated in a form of target propagation playing a role similar to back-propagation but helping to reduce the reliance on derivatives in order to perform credit assignment across many levels of possibly strong non-linearities (which is difficult for back-propagation). A regularized auto-encoder tends produce a reconstruction that is a more likely version of its input, i.e., a small move in the direction of higher likelihood. By generalizing gradients, target propagation may also allow to train deep networks with discrete hidden units. If the auto-encoder takes both a representation of input and target (or of any side information) in input, then its reconstruction of input representation provides a target towards a representation that is more likely, conditioned on all the side information. A deep auto-encoder decoding path generalizes gradient propagation in a learned way that can could thus handle not just infinitesimal changes but larger, discrete changes, hopefully allowing credit assignment through a long chain of non-linear operations. In addition to each layer being a good auto-encoder, the encoder also learns to please the upper layers by transforming the data into a space where it is easier to model by them, flattening manifolds and disentangling factors. The motivations and theoretical justifications for this approach are laid down in this paper, along with conjectures that will have to be verified either mathematically or experimentally, including a hypothesis stating that such auto-encoder mediated target propagation could play in brains the role of credit assignment through many non-linear, noisy and discrete transformations.

  For sales and marketing organizations within large enterprises, identifying and understanding new markets, customers and partners is a key challenge. Intel's Sales and Marketing Group (SMG) faces similar challenges while growing in new markets and domains and evolving its existing business. In today's complex technological and commercial landscape, there is need for intelligent automation supporting a fine-grained understanding of businesses in order to help SMG sift through millions of companies across many geographies and languages and identify relevant directions. We present a system developed in our company that mines millions of public business web pages, and extracts a faceted customer representation. We focus on two key customer aspects that are essential for finding relevant opportunities: industry segments (ranging from broad verticals such as healthcare, to more specific fields such as 'video analytics') and functional roles (e.g., 'manufacturer' or 'retail'). To address the challenge of labeled data collection, we enrich our data with external information gleaned from Wikipedia, and develop a semi-supervised multi-label, multi-lingual deep learning model that parses customer website texts and classifies them into their respective facets. Our system scans and indexes companies as part of a large-scale knowledge graph that currently holds tens of millions of connected entities with thousands being fetched, enriched and connected to the graph by the hour in real time, and also supports knowledge and insight discovery. In experiments conducted in our company, we are able to significantly boost the performance of sales personnel in the task of discovering new customers and commercial partnership opportunities.

  Recent work has shown that the input-output behavior of some machine learning systems can be captured symbolically using Boolean expressions or tractable Boolean circuits, which facilitates reasoning about the behavior of these systems. While most of the focus has been on systems with Boolean inputs and outputs, we address systems with discrete inputs and outputs, including ones with discretized continuous variables as in systems based on decision trees. We also focus on the suitability of encodings for computing prime implicants, which have recently played a central role in explaining the decisions of machine learning systems. We show some key distinctions with encodings for satisfiability, and propose an encoding that is sound and complete for the given task.

  In recent years, several methods have been proposed for the discovery of causal structure from non-experimental data (Spirtes et al. 2000; Pearl 2000). Such methods make various assumptions on the data generating process to facilitate its identification from purely observational data. Continuing this line of research, we show how to discover the complete causal structure of continuous-valued data, under the assumptions that (a) the data generating process is linear, (b) there are no unobserved confounders, and (c) disturbance variables have non-gaussian distributions of non-zero variances. The solution relies on the use of the statistical method known as independent component analysis (ICA), and does not require any pre-specified time-ordering of the variables. We provide a complete Matlab package for performing this LiNGAM analysis (short for Linear Non-Gaussian Acyclic Model), and demonstrate the effectiveness of the method using artificially generated data.

  Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) have achieved tremendous success in graph representation learning. Unfortunately, current GNNs usually rely on loading the entire attributed graph into network for processing. This implicit assumption may not be satisfied with limited memory resources, especially when the attributed graph is large. In this paper, we pioneer to propose a Binary Graph Convolutional Network (Bi-GCN), which binarizes both the network parameters and input node features. Besides, the original matrix multiplications are revised to binary operations for accelerations. According to the theoretical analysis, our Bi-GCN can reduce the memory consumption by an average of ~30x for both the network parameters and input data, and accelerate the inference speed by an average of ~47x, on the citation networks. Meanwhile, we also design a new gradient approximation based back-propagation method to train our Bi-GCN well. Extensive experiments have demonstrated that our Bi-GCN can give a comparable performance compared to the full-precision baselines. Besides, our binarization approach can be easily applied to other GNNs, which has been verified in the experiments.

  Topic models have been the prominent tools for automatic topic discovery from text corpora. Despite their effectiveness, topic models suffer from several limitations including the inability of modeling word ordering information in documents, the difficulty of incorporating external linguistic knowledge, and the lack of both accurate and efficient inference methods for approximating the intractable posterior. Recently, pretrained language models (PLMs) have brought astonishing performance improvements to a wide variety of tasks due to their superior representations of text. Interestingly, there have not been standard approaches to deploy PLMs for topic discovery as better alternatives to topic models. In this paper, we begin by analyzing the challenges of using PLM representations for topic discovery, and then propose a joint latent space learning and clustering framework built upon PLM embeddings. In the latent space, topic-word and document-topic distributions are jointly modeled so that the discovered topics can be interpreted by coherent and distinctive terms and meanwhile serve as meaningful summaries of the documents. Our model effectively leverages the strong representation power and superb linguistic features brought by PLMs for topic discovery, and is conceptually simpler than topic models. On two benchmark datasets in different domains, our model generates significantly more coherent and diverse topics than strong topic models, and offers better topic-wise document representations, based on both automatic and human evaluations.

  Among various soft computing approaches for time series forecasting, Fuzzy Cognitive Maps (FCM) have shown remarkable results as a tool to model and analyze the dynamics of complex systems. FCM have similarities to recurrent neural networks and can be classified as a neuro-fuzzy method. In other words, FCMs are a mixture of fuzzy logic, neural network, and expert system aspects, which act as a powerful tool for simulating and studying the dynamic behavior of complex systems. The most interesting features are knowledge interpretability, dynamic characteristics and learning capability. The goal of this survey paper is mainly to present an overview on the most relevant and recent FCM-based time series forecasting models proposed in the literature. In addition, this article considers an introduction on the fundamentals of FCM model and learning methodologies. Also, this survey provides some ideas for future research to enhance the capabilities of FCM in order to cover some challenges in the real-world experiments such as handling non-stationary data and scalability issues. Moreover, equipping FCMs with fast learning algorithms is one of the major concerns in this area.

  Online-learning literature has focused on designing algorithms that ensure sub-linear growth of the cumulative long-term constraint violations. The drawback of this guarantee is that strictly feasible actions may cancel out constraint violations on other time slots. For this reason, we introduce a new performance measure called $\hCFit$, whose particular instance is the cumulative positive part of the constraint violations. We propose a class of non-causal algorithms for online-decision making, which guarantees, in slowly changing environments, sub-linear growth of this quantity despite noisy first-order feedback. Furthermore, we demonstrate by numerical experiments the performance gain of our method relative to the state of art.

  In this manuscript, we research on the behaviors of surrogates for the rank function on different image processing problems and their optimization algorithms. We first propose a novel nonconvex rank surrogate on the general rank minimization problem and apply this to the corrupted image completion problem. Then, we propose that nonconvex rank surrogates can be introduced into two well-known sparse and low-rank models: Robust Principal Component Analysis (RPCA) and Low-Rank Representation (LRR). For optimization, we use alternating direction method of multipliers (ADMM) and propose a trick, which is called the dual momentum. We add the difference of the dual variable between the current and the last iteration with a weight. This trick can avoid the local minimum problem and make the algorithm converge to a solution with smaller recovery error in the nonconvex optimization problem. Also, it can boost the convergence when the variable updates too slowly. We also give a severe proof and verify that the proposed algorithms are convergent. Then, several experiments are conducted, including image completion, denoising, and spectral clustering with outlier detection. These experiments show that the proposed methods are effective in image and signal processing applications, and have the best performance compared with state-of-the-art methods.

  A central problem in cognitive science and behavioural neuroscience as well as in machine learning and artificial intelligence research is to ascertain whether two or more decision makers (be they brains or algorithms) use the same strategy. Accuracy alone cannot distinguish between strategies: two systems may achieve similar accuracy with very different strategies. The need to differentiate beyond accuracy is particularly pressing if two systems are near ceiling performance, like Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) and humans on visual object recognition. Here we introduce trial-by-trial error consistency, a quantitative analysis for measuring whether two decision making systems systematically make errors on the same inputs. Making consistent errors on a trial-by-trial basis is a necessary condition for similar processing strategies between decision makers. Our analysis is applicable to compare algorithms with algorithms, humans with humans, and algorithms with humans. When applying error consistency to object recognition we obtain three main findings: (1.) Irrespective of architecture, CNNs are remarkably consistent with one another. (2.) The consistency between CNNs and human observers, however, is little above what can be expected by chance alone -- indicating that humans and CNNs are likely implementing very different strategies. (3.) CORnet-S, a recurrent model termed the "current best model of the primate ventral visual stream", fails to capture essential characteristics of human behavioural data and behaves essentially like a standard purely feedforward ResNet-50 in our analysis. Taken together, error consistency analysis suggests that the strategies used by human and machine vision are still very different -- but we envision our general-purpose error consistency analysis to serve as a fruitful tool for quantifying future progress.

  Deep Learning has implemented a wide range of applications and has become increasingly popular in recent years. The goal of multimodal deep learning (MMDL) is to create models that can process and link information using various modalities. Despite the extensive development made for unimodal learning, it still cannot cover all the aspects of human learning. Multimodal learning helps to understand and analyze better when various senses are engaged in the processing of information. This paper focuses on multiple types of modalities, i.e., image, video, text, audio, body gestures, facial expressions, and physiological signals. Detailed analysis of the baseline approaches and an in-depth study of recent advancements during the last five years (2017 to 2021) in multimodal deep learning applications has been provided. A fine-grained taxonomy of various multimodal deep learning methods is proposed, elaborating on different applications in more depth. Lastly, main issues are highlighted separately for each domain, along with their possible future research directions.

  The hyperspectral image (HSI) unmixing task is essentially an inverse problem, which is commonly solved by optimization algorithms under a predefined (non-)linear mixture model. Although these optimization algorithms show impressive performance, they are very computational demanding as they often rely on an iterative updating scheme. Recently, the rise of neural networks has inspired lots of learning based algorithms in unmixing literature. However, most of them lack of interpretability and require a large training dataset. One natural question then arises: can one leverage the model based algorithm and learning based algorithm to achieve interpretable and fast algorithm for HSI unmixing problem? In this paper, we propose two novel network architectures, named U-ADMM-AENet and U-ADMM-BUNet, for abundance estimation and blind unmixing respectively, by combining the conventional optimization-model based unmixing method and the rising learning based unmixing method. We first consider a linear mixture model with sparsity constraint, then we unfold Alternating Direction Method of Multipliers (ADMM) algorithm to construct the unmixing network structures. We also show that the unfolded structures can find corresponding interpretations in machine learning literature, which further demonstrates the effectiveness of proposed methods. Benefit from the interpretation, the proposed networks can be initialized by incorporating prior information about the HSI data. Different from traditional unfolding networks, we propose a new training strategy for proposed networks to better fit in the HSI applications. Extensive experiments show that the proposed methods can achieve much faster convergence and competitive performance even with very small size of training data, when compared with state-of-art algorithms.

  We present a novel approach to the regression of quantum mechanical energies based on a scattering transform of an intermediate electron density representation. A scattering transform is a deep convolution network computed with a cascade of multiscale wavelet transforms. It possesses appropriate invariant and stability properties for quantum energy regression. This new framework removes fundamental limitations of Coulomb matrix based energy regressions, and numerical experiments give state-of-the-art accuracy over planar molecules.

  Representation learning seeks to expose certain aspects of observed data in a learned representation that's amenable to downstream tasks like classification. For instance, a good representation for 2D images might be one that describes only global structure and discards information about detailed texture. In this paper, we present a simple but principled method to learn such global representations by combining Variational Autoencoder (VAE) with neural autoregressive models such as RNN, MADE and PixelRNN/CNN. Our proposed VAE model allows us to have control over what the global latent code can learn and , by designing the architecture accordingly, we can force the global latent code to discard irrelevant information such as texture in 2D images, and hence the VAE only "autoencodes" data in a lossy fashion. In addition, by leveraging autoregressive models as both prior distribution $p(z)$ and decoding distribution $p(x|z)$, we can greatly improve generative modeling performance of VAEs, achieving new state-of-the-art results on MNIST, OMNIGLOT and Caltech-101 Silhouettes density estimation tasks.

  Machine unlearning is the task of updating machine learning (ML) models after a subset of the training data they were trained on is deleted. Methods for the task are desired to combine effectiveness and efficiency, i.e., they should effectively "unlearn" deleted data, but in a way that does not require excessive computation effort (e.g., a full retraining) for a small amount of deletions. Such a combination is typically achieved by tolerating some amount of approximation in the unlearning. In addition, laws and regulations in the spirit of "the right to be forgotten" have given rise to requirements for certifiability, i.e., the ability to demonstrate that the deleted data has indeed been unlearned by the ML model.   In this paper, we present an experimental study of the three state-of-the-art approximate unlearning methods for linear models and demonstrate the trade-offs between efficiency, effectiveness and certifiability offered by each method. In implementing the study, we extend some of the existing works and describe a common ML pipeline to compare and evaluate the unlearning methods on six real-world datasets and a variety of settings. We provide insights into the effect of the quantity and distribution of the deleted data on ML models and the performance of each unlearning method in different settings. We also propose a practical online strategy to determine when the accumulated error from approximate unlearning is large enough to warrant a full retrain of the ML model.

  Adversarial examples are maliciously perturbed inputs designed to mislead machine learning (ML) models at test-time. They often transfer: the same adversarial example fools more than one model.   In this work, we propose novel methods for estimating the previously unknown dimensionality of the space of adversarial inputs. We find that adversarial examples span a contiguous subspace of large (~25) dimensionality. Adversarial subspaces with higher dimensionality are more likely to intersect. We find that for two different models, a significant fraction of their subspaces is shared, thus enabling transferability.   In the first quantitative analysis of the similarity of different models' decision boundaries, we show that these boundaries are actually close in arbitrary directions, whether adversarial or benign. We conclude by formally studying the limits of transferability. We derive (1) sufficient conditions on the data distribution that imply transferability for simple model classes and (2) examples of scenarios in which transfer does not occur. These findings indicate that it may be possible to design defenses against transfer-based attacks, even for models that are vulnerable to direct attacks.

  In machine learning, it is very important for a robot to be able to estimate dynamics from sequences of input data. This problem can be solved using a recurrent neural network. In this paper, we will discuss the preprocessing of 10 states of the dataset, then the use of a LSTM recurrent neural network to estimate one output state (dynamics) from the other 9 input states. We will discuss the architecture of the recurrent neural network, the data collection and preprocessing, the loss function, the results of the test data, and the discussion of changes that could improve the network. The results of this paper will be used for artificial intelligence research and identify the capabilities of a LSTM recurrent neural network architecture to estimate dynamics of a system.

  Pneumonia is a life-threatening disease, which occurs in the lungs caused by either bacterial or viral infection. It can be life-endangering if not acted upon in the right time and thus an early diagnosis of pneumonia is vital. The aim of this paper is to automatically detect bacterial and viral pneumonia using digital x-ray images. It provides a detailed report on advances made in making accurate detection of pneumonia and then presents the methodology adopted by the authors. Four different pre-trained deep Convolutional Neural Network (CNN)- AlexNet, ResNet18, DenseNet201, and SqueezeNet were used for transfer learning. 5247 Bacterial, viral and normal chest x-rays images underwent preprocessing techniques and the modified images were trained for the transfer learning based classification task. In this work, the authors have reported three schemes of classifications: normal vs pneumonia, bacterial vs viral pneumonia and normal, bacterial and viral pneumonia. The classification accuracy of normal and pneumonia images, bacterial and viral pneumonia images, and normal, bacterial and viral pneumonia were 98%, 95%, and 93.3% respectively. This is the highest accuracy in any scheme than the accuracies reported in the literature. Therefore, the proposed study can be useful in faster-diagnosing pneumonia by the radiologist and can help in the fast airport screening of pneumonia patients.

  Obtaining per-beat information is a key task in the analysis of cardiac electrocardiograms (ECG), as many downstream diagnosis tasks are dependent on ECG-based measurements. Those measurements, however, are costly to produce, especially in recordings that change throughout long periods of time. However, existing annotated databases for ECG delineation are small, being insufficient in size and in the array of pathological conditions they represent. This article delves has two main contributions. First, a pseudo-synthetic data generation algorithm was developed, based in probabilistically composing ECG traces given "pools" of fundamental segments, as cropped from the original databases, and a set of rules for their arrangement into coherent synthetic traces. The generation of conditions is controlled by imposing expert knowledge on the generated trace, which increases the input variability for training the model. Second, two novel segmentation-based loss functions have been developed, which attempt at enforcing the prediction of an exact number of independent structures and at producing closer segmentation boundaries by focusing on a reduced number of samples. The best performing model obtained an $F_1$-score of 99.38\% and a delineation error of $2.19 \pm 17.73$ ms and $4.45 \pm 18.32$ ms for all wave's fiducials (onsets and offsets, respectively), as averaged across the P, QRS and T waves for three distinct freely available databases. The excellent results were obtained despite the heterogeneous characteristics of the tested databases, in terms of lead configurations (Holter, 12-lead), sampling frequencies ($250$, $500$ and $2,000$ Hz) and represented pathophysiologies (e.g., different types of arrhythmias, sinus rhythm with structural heart disease), hinting at its generalization capabilities, while outperforming current state-of-the-art delineation approaches.

  The paper introduces a new dataset to assess the performance of machine learning algorithms in the prediction of the seriousness of injury in a traffic accident. The dataset is created by aggregating publicly available datasets from the UK Department for Transport, which are drastically imbalanced with missing attributes sometimes approaching 50\% of the overall data dimensionality. The paper presents the data analysis pipeline starting from the publicly available data of road traffic accidents and ending with predictors of possible injuries and their degree of severity. It addresses the huge incompleteness of public data with a MissForest model. The paper also introduces two baseline approaches to create injury predictors: a supervised artificial neural network and a reinforcement learning model. The dataset can potentially stimulate diverse aspects of machine learning research on imbalanced datasets and the two approaches can be used as baseline references when researchers test more advanced learning algorithms in this area.

A multitude of studies have been conducted on graph drawing, but many existing methods only focus on optimizing particular aesthetic aspects of graph layout. Given a graph, generating a good layout that satisfies certain human aesthetic preference remains a challenging task, especially if such preference can not be expressed as a differentiable objective function. In this paper, we propose a student-teacher GAN-based graph drawing framework, SmartGD, which learns to draw graphs just like how humans learn to perform tasks. The student network in the SmartGD learns graph drawing by imitating good layout examples, while the teacher network in SmartGD is responsible for providing ratings regarding the goodness of the generated layouts. When there is a lack of concrete aesthetic criteria to specify what constitutes a good layout, the student network can learn from the good layout examples. On the other hand, when the goodness of a layout can be assessed by quantitative criteria (even if not differentiable), the student network can use it as a concrete goal to optimize the target aesthetics. To accomplish the goal, we propose a novel variant of GAN, self-challenging GAN, to learn the optimal layout distribution with respect to any aesthetic criterion, whether the criterion is differentiable or not. The proposed graph drawing framework can not only draw graphs in a similar style as the good layout examples but also optimize the graph layouts according to any given aesthetic criteria when available. Once the model is trained, it can be used to visualize arbitrary graphs according to the style of the example layouts or the chosen aesthetic criteria. The comprehensive experimental studies show that SmartGD outperforms 12 benchmark methods according to the commonly agreed metrics.

  In many applied fields, researchers are often interested in tailoring treatments to unit-level characteristics in order to optimize an outcome of interest. Methods for identifying and estimating treatment policies are the subject of the dynamic treatment regime literature. Separately, in many settings the assumption that data are independent and identically distributed does not hold due to inter-subject dependence. The phenomenon where a subject's outcome is dependent on his neighbor's exposure is known as interference. These areas intersect in myriad real-world settings. In this paper we consider the problem of identifying optimal treatment policies in the presence of interference. Using a general representation of interference, via Lauritzen-Wermuth-Freydenburg chain graphs (Lauritzen and Richardson, 2002), we formalize a variety of policy interventions under interference and extend existing identification theory (Tian, 2008; Sherman and Shpitser, 2018). Finally, we illustrate the efficacy of policy maximization under interference in a simulation study.

  Designing truthful, revenue maximizing auctions is a core problem of auction design. Multi-item settings have long been elusive. Recent work (arXiv:1706.03459) introduces effective deep learning techniques to find such auctions for the prior-dependent setting, in which distributions about bidder preferences are known. One remaining problem is to obtain priors in a way that excludes the possibility of manipulating the resulting auctions. Using techniques from differential privacy for the construction of approximately truthful mechanisms, we modify the RegretNet approach to be applicable to the prior-free setting. In this more general setting, no distributional information is assumed, but we trade this property for worse performance. We present preliminary empirical results and qualitative analysis for this work in progress.

  This paper studies how to construct confidence regions for principal component analysis (PCA) in high dimension, a problem that has been vastly under-explored. While computing measures of uncertainty for nonlinear/nonconvex estimators is in general difficult in high dimension, the challenge is further compounded by the prevalent presence of missing data and heteroskedastic noise. We propose a suite of solutions to perform valid inference on the principal subspace based on two estimators: a vanilla SVD-based approach, and a more refined iterative scheme called $\textsf{HeteroPCA}$ (Zhang et al., 2018). We develop non-asymptotic distributional guarantees for both estimators, and demonstrate how these can be invoked to compute both confidence regions for the principal subspace and entrywise confidence intervals for the spiked covariance matrix. Particularly worth highlighting is the inference procedure built on top of $\textsf{HeteroPCA}$, which is not only valid but also statistically efficient for broader scenarios (e.g., it covers a wider range of missing rates and signal-to-noise ratios). Our solutions are fully data-driven and adaptive to heteroskedastic random noise, without requiring prior knowledge about the noise levels and noise distributions.

  The loss surface of deep neural networks has recently attracted interest in the optimization and machine learning communities as a prime example of high-dimensional non-convex problem. Some insights were recently gained using spin glass models and mean-field approximations, but at the expense of strongly simplifying the nonlinear nature of the model.   In this work, we do not make any such assumption and study conditions on the data distribution and model architecture that prevent the existence of bad local minima. Our theoretical work quantifies and formalizes two important \emph{folklore} facts: (i) the landscape of deep linear networks has a radically different topology from that of deep half-rectified ones, and (ii) that the energy landscape in the non-linear case is fundamentally controlled by the interplay between the smoothness of the data distribution and model over-parametrization. Our main theoretical contribution is to prove that half-rectified single layer networks are asymptotically connected, and we provide explicit bounds that reveal the aforementioned interplay.   The conditioning of gradient descent is the next challenge we address. We study this question through the geometry of the level sets, and we introduce an algorithm to efficiently estimate the regularity of such sets on large-scale networks. Our empirical results show that these level sets remain connected throughout all the learning phase, suggesting a near convex behavior, but they become exponentially more curvy as the energy level decays, in accordance to what is observed in practice with very low curvature attractors.

  How can we efficiently gather information to optimize an unknown function, when presented with multiple, mutually dependent information sources with different costs? For example, when optimizing a robotic system, intelligently trading off computer simulations and real robot testings can lead to significant savings. Existing methods, such as multi-fidelity GP-UCB or Entropy Search-based approaches, either make simplistic assumptions on the interaction among different fidelities or use simple heuristics that lack theoretical guarantees. In this paper, we study multi-fidelity Bayesian optimization with complex structural dependencies among multiple outputs, and propose MF-MI-Greedy, a principled algorithmic framework for addressing this problem. In particular, we model different fidelities using additive Gaussian processes based on shared latent structures with the target function. Then we use cost-sensitive mutual information gain for efficient Bayesian global optimization. We propose a simple notion of regret which incorporates the cost of different fidelities, and prove that MF-MI-Greedy achieves low regret. We demonstrate the strong empirical performance of our algorithm on both synthetic and real-world datasets.

  We interpret solving the multi-vehicle routing problem as a team Markov game with partially observable costs. For a given set of customers to serve, the playing agents (vehicles) have the common goal to determine the team-optimal agent routes with minimal total cost. Each agent thereby observes only its own cost. Our multi-agent reinforcement learning approach, the so-called multi-agent Neural Rewriter, builds on the single-agent Neural Rewriter to solve the problem by iteratively rewriting solutions. Parallel agent action execution and partial observability require new rewriting rules for the game. We propose the introduction of a so-called pool in the system which serves as a collection point for unvisited nodes. It enables agents to act simultaneously and exchange nodes in a conflict-free manner. We realize limited disclosure of agent-specific costs by only sharing them during learning. During inference, each agents acts decentrally, solely based on its own cost. First empirical results on small problem sizes demonstrate that we reach a performance close to the employed OR-Tools benchmark which operates in the perfect cost information setting.

  Position encoding in transformer architecture provides supervision for dependency modeling between elements at different positions in the sequence. We investigate various methods to encode positional information in transformer-based language models and propose a novel implementation named Rotary Position Embedding(RoPE). The proposed RoPE encodes absolute positional information with rotation matrix and naturally incorporates explicit relative position dependency in self-attention formulation. Notably, RoPE comes with valuable properties such as flexibility of being expand to any sequence lengths, decaying inter-token dependency with increasing relative distances, and capability of equipping the linear self-attention with relative position encoding. As a result, the enhanced transformer with rotary position embedding, or RoFormer, achieves superior performance in tasks with long texts. We release the theoretical analysis along with some preliminary experiment results on Chinese data. The undergoing experiment for English benchmark will soon be updated.

  Tie strength prediction, sometimes named weight prediction, is vital in exploring the diversity of connectivity pattern emerged in networks. Due to the fundamental significance, it has drawn much attention in the field of network analysis and mining. Some related works appeared in recent years have significantly advanced our understanding of how to predict the strong and weak ties in the social networks. However, most of the proposed approaches are scenario-aware methods heavily depending on some special contexts and even exclusively used in social networks. As a result, they are less applicable to various kinds of networks.   In contrast to the prior studies, here we propose a new computational framework called Neighborhood Estimating Weight (NEW) which is purely driven by the basic structure information of the network and has the flexibility for adapting to diverse types of networks. In NEW, we design a novel index, i.e., connection inclination, to generate the representative features of the network, which is capable of capturing the actual distribution of the tie strength. In order to obtain the optimized prediction results, we also propose a parameterized regression model which approximately has a linear time complexity and thus is readily extended to the implementation in large-scale networks. The experimental results on six real-world networks demonstrate that our proposed predictive model outperforms the state of the art methods, which is powerful for predicting the missing tie strengths when only a part of the network's tie strength information is available.

  Ubiquitous systems with End-Edge-Cloud architecture are increasingly being used in healthcare applications. Federated Learning (FL) is highly useful for such applications, due to silo effect and privacy preserving. Existing FL approaches generally do not account for disparities in the quality of local data labels. However, the clients in ubiquitous systems tend to suffer from label noise due to varying skill-levels, biases or malicious tampering of the annotators. In this paper, we propose Federated Opportunistic Computing for Ubiquitous Systems (FOCUS) to address this challenge. It maintains a small set of benchmark samples on the FL server and quantifies the credibility of the client local data without directly observing them by computing the mutual cross-entropy between performance of the FL model on the local datasets and that of the client local FL model on the benchmark dataset. Then, a credit weighted orchestration is performed to adjust the weight assigned to clients in the FL model based on their credibility values. FOCUS has been experimentally evaluated on both synthetic data and real-world data. The results show that it effectively identifies clients with noisy labels and reduces their impact on the model performance, thereby significantly outperforming existing FL approaches.

  Suppose there is a large collection of items, each with an associated cost and an inherent utility that is revealed only once we commit to selecting it. Given a budget on the cumulative cost of the selected items, how can we pick a subset of maximal value? This task generalizes several important problems such as multi-arm bandits, active search and the knapsack problem. We present an algorithm, GP-Select, which utilizes prior knowledge about similarity be- tween items, expressed as a kernel function. GP-Select uses Gaussian process prediction to balance exploration (estimating the unknown value of items) and exploitation (selecting items of high value). We extend GP-Select to be able to discover sets that simultaneously have high utility and are diverse. Our preference for diversity can be specified as an arbitrary monotone submodular function that quantifies the diminishing returns obtained when selecting similar items. Furthermore, we exploit the structure of the model updates to achieve an order of magnitude (up to 40X) speedup in our experiments without resorting to approximations. We provide strong guarantees on the performance of GP-Select and apply it to three real-world case studies of industrial relevance: (1) Refreshing a repository of prices in a Global Distribution System for the travel industry, (2) Identifying diverse, binding-affine peptides in a vaccine de- sign task and (3) Maximizing clicks in a web-scale recommender system by recommending items to users.

  Federated learning has quickly gained popularity with its promises of increased user privacy and efficiency. Previous works have shown that federated gradient updates contain information that can be used to approximately recover user data in some situations. These previous attacks on user privacy have been limited in scope and do not scale to gradient updates aggregated over even a handful of data points, leaving some to conclude that data privacy is still intact for realistic training regimes. In this work, we introduce a new threat model based on minimal but malicious modifications of the shared model architecture which enable the server to directly obtain a verbatim copy of user data from gradient updates without solving difficult inverse problems. Even user data aggregated over large batches -- where previous methods fail to extract meaningful content -- can be reconstructed by these minimally modified models.

  Spectrum scarcity has surfaced as a prominent concern in wireless radio communications with the emergence of new technologies over the past few years. As a result, there is growing need for better understanding of the spectrum occupancy with newly emerging access technologies supporting the Internet of Things. In this paper, we present a framework to capture and model the traffic behavior of short-time spectrum occupancy for IoT applications in the shared bands to determine the existing interference. The proposed capturing method utilizes a software defined radio to monitor the short bursts of IoT transmissions by capturing the time series data which is converted to power spectral density to extract the observed occupancy. Furthermore, we propose the use of an unsupervised machine learning technique to enhance conventionally implemented energy detection methods. Our experimental results show that the temporal and frequency behavior of the spectrum can be well-captured using the combination of two models, namely, semi-Markov chains and a Poisson-distribution arrival rate. We conduct an extensive measurement campaign in different urban environments and incorporate the spatial effect on the IoT shared spectrum.

  Many scientific and engineering fields involve analyzing network data. For document networks, relational topic models (RTMs) provide a probabilistic generative process to describe both the link structure and document contents, and they have shown promise on predicting network structures and discovering latent topic representations. However, existing RTMs have limitations in both the restricted model expressiveness and incapability of dealing with imbalanced network data. To expand the scope and improve the inference accuracy of RTMs, this paper presents three extensions: 1) unlike the common link likelihood with a diagonal weight matrix that allows the-same-topic interactions only, we generalize it to use a full weight matrix that captures all pairwise topic interactions and is applicable to asymmetric networks; 2) instead of doing standard Bayesian inference, we perform regularized Bayesian inference (RegBayes) with a regularization parameter to deal with the imbalanced link structure issue in common real networks and improve the discriminative ability of learned latent representations; and 3) instead of doing variational approximation with strict mean-field assumptions, we present collapsed Gibbs sampling algorithms for the generalized relational topic models by exploring data augmentation without making restricting assumptions. Under the generic RegBayes framework, we carefully investigate two popular discriminative loss functions, namely, the logistic log-loss and the max-margin hinge loss. Experimental results on several real network datasets demonstrate the significance of these extensions on improving the prediction performance, and the time efficiency can be dramatically improved with a simple fast approximation method.

  This note discusses proofs for convergence of first-order methods based on simple potential-function arguments. We cover methods like gradient descent (for both smooth and non-smooth settings), mirror descent, and some accelerated variants.

  We investigate applying 3D deep convolutional neural networks as fast surrogate models of the formation and feedback effects of primordial stars in hydrodynamic cosmological simulations of the first galaxies. Here, we present the surrogate model to predict localized primordial star formation; the feedback model will be presented in a subsequent paper. The star formation prediction model consists of two sub-models: the first is a 3D volume classifier that predicts which (10 comoving kpc)$^3$ volumes will host star formation, followed by a 3D Inception-based U-net voxel segmentation model that predicts which voxels will form primordial stars. We find that the combined model predicts primordial star forming volumes with high skill, with $F_1 >0.995$ and true skill score $>0.994$. The star formation is localized within the volume to $\lesssim5^3$~voxels ($\sim1.6$~comoving kpc$^3$) with $F_1>0.399$ and true skill score $>0.857$. Applied to simulations with low spatial resolution, the model predicts star forming regions in the same locations and at similar redshifts as sites in resolved full-physics simulations that explicitly model primordial star formation and feedback. When applied to simulations with lower mass resolution, we find that the model predicts star forming regions at later redshift due to delayed structure formation resulting from lower mass resolution. Our model predicts primordial star formation without halo finding, so will be useful in spatially under-resolved simulations that cannot resolve primordial star forming halos. To our knowledge, this is the first model that can predict primordial star forming regions that match highly-resolved cosmological simulations.

  With the advancement in computing power over last decades, deep neural networks (DNN), consisting of two or more hidden layers with large number of nodes, are being suggested as an alternate to commonly used single-hidden-layer neural networks (ANN). DNN are found to be flexible models with a very large number of parameters, thus making them capable of modelling very complex and highly nonlinear relationships existing between inputs and outputs. This paper investigates the potential of a DNN consisting of 3 hidden layers (100, 80 and 50 nodes) to predict the local scour around bridge piers using field data. To update the weights and bias of DNN, an adaptive learning rate optimization algorithm was used. The dataset consists of 232 pier scour measurements, out of which a total of 154 data were used to train whereas remaining 78 data to test the created model. A correlation coefficient value of 0.957 (root mean square error = 0.306m) was achieved by DNN in comparison to 0.938 (0.388m) by ANN, indicating an improved performance by DNN for scour depth perdition. Encouraging performance on the used dataset in the work suggests the need of more studies on the use of DNN for various civil engineering applications.

  Federated learning (FL) is a promising privacy-preserving distributed machine learning methodology that allows multiple clients (i.e., workers) to collaboratively train statistical models without disclosing private training data. Due to the characteristics of data remaining localized and the uninspected on-device training process, there may exist Byzantine workers launching data poisoning and model poisoning attacks, which would seriously deteriorate model performance or prevent the model from convergence. Most of the existing Byzantine-robust FL schemes are either ineffective against several advanced poisoning attacks or need to centralize a public validation dataset, which is intractable in FL. Moreover, to the best of our knowledge, none of the existing Byzantine-robust distributed learning methods could well exert its power in Non-Independent and Identically distributed (Non-IID) data among clients. To address these issues, we propose FedCom, a novel Byzantine-robust federated learning framework by incorporating the idea of commitment from cryptography, which could achieve both data poisoning and model poisoning tolerant FL under practical Non-IID data partitions. Specifically, in FedCom, each client is first required to make a commitment to its local training data distribution. Then, we identify poisoned datasets by comparing the Wasserstein distance among commitments submitted by different clients. Furthermore, we distinguish abnormal local model updates from benign ones by testing each local model's behavior on its corresponding data commitment. We conduct an extensive performance evaluation of FedCom. The results demonstrate its effectiveness and superior performance compared to the state-of-the-art Byzantine-robust schemes in defending against typical data poisoning and model poisoning attacks under practical Non-IID data distributions.

  In recent years, the prosperity of deep learning has revolutionized the Artificial Neural Networks. However, the dependence of gradients and the offline training mechanism in the learning algorithms prevents the ANN for further improvement. In this study, a gradient-free training framework based on data assimilation is proposed to avoid the calculation of gradients. In data assimilation algorithms, the error covariance between the forecasts and observations is used to optimize the parameters. Feedforward Neural Networks (FNNs) are trained by gradient decent, data assimilation algorithms (Ensemble Kalman Filter (EnKF) and Ensemble Smoother with Multiple Data Assimilation (ESMDA)), respectively. ESMDA trains FNN with pre-defined iterations by updating the parameters using all the available observations which can be regard as offline learning. EnKF optimize FNN when new observation available by updating parameters which can be regard as online learning. Two synthetic cases with the regression of a Sine Function and a Mexican Hat function are assumed to validate the effectiveness of the proposed framework. The Root Mean Square Error (RMSE) and coefficient of determination (R2) are used as criteria to assess the performance of different methods. The results show that the proposed training framework performed better than the gradient decent method. The proposed framework provides alternatives for online/offline training the existing ANNs (e.g., Convolutional Neural Networks, Recurrent Neural Networks) without the dependence of gradients.

  Speech pre-training has primarily demonstrated efficacy on classification tasks, while its capability of generating novel speech, similar to how GPT-2 can generate coherent paragraphs, has barely been explored. Generative Spoken Language Modeling (GSLM) \cite{Lakhotia2021} is the only prior work addressing the generative aspects of speech pre-training, which replaces text with discovered phone-like units for language modeling and shows the ability to generate meaningful novel sentences. Unfortunately, despite eliminating the need of text, the units used in GSLM discard most of the prosodic information. Hence, GSLM fails to leverage prosody for better comprehension, and does not generate expressive speech. In this work, we present a prosody-aware generative spoken language model (pGSLM). It is composed of a multi-stream transformer language model (MS-TLM) of speech, represented as discovered unit and prosodic feature streams, and an adapted HiFi-GAN model converting MS-TLM outputs to waveforms. We devise a series of metrics for prosody modeling and generation, and re-use metrics from GSLM for content modeling. Experimental results show that the pGSLM can utilize prosody to improve both prosody and content modeling, and also generate natural, meaningful, and coherent speech given a spoken prompt. Audio samples can be found at https://speechbot.github.io/pgslm. Codes and models are available at https://github.com/pytorch/fairseq/tree/main/examples/textless_nlp/pgslm.

  The insurance industry, with its large datasets, is a natural place to use big data solutions. However it must be stressed, that significant number of applications for machine learning in insurance industry, like fraud detection or claim prediction, deals with the problem of machine learning on an imbalanced data set. This is due to the fact that frauds or claims are rare events when compared with the entire population of drivers. The problem of imbalanced learning is often hard to overcome. Therefore, the main goal of this work is to present and apply various methods of dealing with an imbalanced dataset in the context of claim occurrence prediction in car insurance. In addition, the above techniques are used to compare the results of machine learning algorithms in the context of claim occurrence prediction in car insurance. Our study covers the following techniques: logistic-regression, decision tree, random forest, xgBoost, feed-forward network. The problem is the classification one.

  Smart premise selection is essential when using automated reasoning as a tool for large-theory formal proof development. A good method for premise selection in complex mathematical libraries is the application of machine learning to large corpora of proofs. This work develops learning-based premise selection in two ways. First, a newly available minimal dependency analysis of existing high-level formal mathematical proofs is used to build a large knowledge base of proof dependencies, providing precise data for ATP-based re-verification and for training premise selection algorithms. Second, a new machine learning algorithm for premise selection based on kernel methods is proposed and implemented. To evaluate the impact of both techniques, a benchmark consisting of 2078 large-theory mathematical problems is constructed,extending the older MPTP Challenge benchmark. The combined effect of the techniques results in a 50% improvement on the benchmark over the Vampire/SInE state-of-the-art system for automated reasoning in large theories.

  The solution of problems in physics is often facilitated by a change of variables. In this work we present neural transformations to learn symmetries of Hamiltonian mechanical systems. Maintaining the Hamiltonian structure requires novel network architectures that parametrize symplectic transformations. We demonstrate the utility of these architectures by learning the structure of integrable models. Our work exemplifies the adaptation of neural transformations to a family constrained by more than the condition of invertibility, which we expect to be a common feature of applications of these methods.

  Despite recent advances in voice separation methods, many challenges remain in realistic scenarios such as noisy recording and the limits of available data. In this work, we propose to explicitly incorporate the phonetic and linguistic nature of speech by taking a transfer learning approach using an end-to-end automatic speech recognition (E2EASR) system. The voice separation is conditioned on deep features extracted from E2EASR to cover the long-term dependence of phonetic aspects. Experimental results on speech separation and enhancement task on the AVSpeech dataset show that the proposed method significantly improves the signal-to-distortion ratio over the baseline model and even outperforms an audio visual model, that utilizes visual information of lip movements.

  Hydroelectricity is one of the renewable energy source, has been used for many years in Turkey. The production of hydraulic power plants based on water reservoirs varies based on different parameters. For this reason, the estimation of hydraulic production gains importance in terms of the planning of electricity generation. In this article, the estimation of Turkey's monthly hydroelectricity production has been made with the long-short-term memory (LSTM) network-based deep learning model. The designed deep learning model is based on hydraulic production time series and future production planning for many years. By using real production data and different LSTM deep learning models, their performance on the monthly forecast of hydraulic electricity generation of the next year has been examined. The obtained results showed that the use of time series based on real production data for many years and deep learning model together is successful in long-term prediction. In the study, it is seen that the 100-layer LSTM model, in which 120 months (10 years) hydroelectric generation time data are used according to the RMSE and MAPE values, are the highest model in terms of estimation accuracy, with a MAPE value of 0.1311 (13.1%) in the annual total and 1.09% as the monthly average distribution. In this model, the best results were obtained for the 100-layer LSTM model, in which the time data of 144 months (12 years) hydroelectric generation data are used, with a RMSE value of 29,689 annually and 2474.08 in monthly distribution. According to the results of the study, time data covering at least 120 months of production is recommended to create an acceptable hydropower forecasting model with LSTM.

  Federated learning (FL) is a distributed machine learning paradigm in which the server periodically aggregates local model parameters from clients without assembling their private data.   Constrained communication and personalization requirements pose severe challenges to FL. Federated distillation (FD) is proposed to simultaneously address the above two problems, which exchanges knowledge between the server and clients, supporting heterogeneous local models while significantly reducing communication overhead. However, most existing FD methods require a proxy dataset, which is often unavailable in reality.   A few recent proxy-data-free FD approaches can eliminate the need for additional public data, but suffer from remarkable discrepancy among local knowledge due to model heterogeneity, leading to ambiguous representation on the server and inevitable accuracy degradation.   To tackle this issue, we propose a proxy-data-free FD algorithm based on distributed knowledge congruence (FedDKC). FedDKC leverages well-designed refinement strategies to narrow local knowledge differences into an acceptable upper bound, so as to mitigate the negative effects of knowledge incongruence.   Specifically, from perspectives of peak probability and Shannon entropy of local knowledge, we design kernel-based knowledge refinement (KKR) and searching-based knowledge refinement (SKR) respectively, and theoretically guarantee that the refined-local knowledge can satisfy an approximately-similar distribution and be regarded as congruent.   Extensive experiments conducted on three common datasets demonstrate that our proposed FedDKC significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art (accuracy boosts in 93.33% comparisons,   Top-1 accuracy boosts by up to 4.38%, and Top-5 accuracy boosts by up to 10.31%) on various heterogeneous settings while evidently improving the convergence speed.

  The characterization of an exoplanet's interior is an inverse problem, which requires statistical methods such as Bayesian inference in order to be solved. Current methods employ Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) sampling to infer the posterior probability of planetary structure parameters for a given exoplanet. These methods are time consuming since they require the calculation of a large number of planetary structure models. To speed up the inference process when characterizing an exoplanet, we propose to use conditional invertible neural networks (cINNs) to calculate the posterior probability of the internal structure parameters. cINNs are a special type of neural network which excel in solving inverse problems. We constructed a cINN using FrEIA, which was then trained on a database of $5.6\cdot 10^6$ internal structure models to recover the inverse mapping between internal structure parameters and observable features (i.e., planetary mass, planetary radius and composition of the host star). The cINN method was compared to a Metropolis-Hastings MCMC. For that we repeated the characterization of the exoplanet K2-111 b, using both the MCMC method and the trained cINN. We show that the inferred posterior probability of the internal structure parameters from both methods are very similar, with the biggest differences seen in the exoplanet's water content. Thus cINNs are a possible alternative to the standard time-consuming sampling methods. Indeed, using cINNs allows for orders of magnitude faster inference of an exoplanet's composition than what is possible using an MCMC method, however, it still requires the computation of a large database of internal structures to train the cINN. Since this database is only computed once, we found that using a cINN is more efficient than an MCMC, when more than 10 exoplanets are characterized using the same cINN.

  Purpose: Lung nodule segmentation, i.e., the algorithmic delineation of the lung nodule surface, is a fundamental component of computational nodule analysis pipelines. We propose a new method for segmentation that is a machine learning based extension of current approaches, using labeled image examples to improve its accuracy.   Approach: We introduce an extension of the standard level set image segmentation method where the velocity function is learned from data via machine learning regression methods, rather than a priori designed. Instead, the method employs a set of features to learn a velocity function that guides the level set evolution from initialization.   Results: We apply the method to image volumes of lung nodules from CT scans in the publicly available LIDC dataset, obtaining an average intersection over union score of 0.7185($\pm$0.1114), which is competitive with other methods. We analyze segmentation performance by anatomical and appearance-based categories of the nodules, finding that the method performs better for isolated nodules with well-defined margins. We find that the segmentation performance for nodules in more complex surroundings and having more complex CT appearance is improved with the addition of combined global-local features.   Conclusions: The level set machine learning segmentation approach proposed herein is competitive with current methods. It provides accurate lung nodule segmentation results in a variety of anatomical contexts.

  Protein-ligand interactions (PLIs) are fundamental to biochemical research and their identification is crucial for estimating biophysical and biochemical properties for rational therapeutic design. Currently, experimental characterization of these properties is the most accurate method, however, this is very time-consuming and labor-intensive. A number of computational methods have been developed in this context but most of the existing PLI prediction heavily depends on 2D protein sequence data. Here, we present a novel parallel graph neural network (GNN) to integrate knowledge representation and reasoning for PLI prediction to perform deep learning guided by expert knowledge and informed by 3D structural data. We develop two distinct GNN architectures, GNNF is the base implementation that employs distinct featurization to enhance domain-awareness, while GNNP is a novel implementation that can predict with no prior knowledge of the intermolecular interactions. The comprehensive evaluation demonstrated that GNN can successfully capture the binary interactions between ligand and proteins 3D structure with 0.979 test accuracy for GNNF and 0.958 for GNNP for predicting activity of a protein-ligand complex. These models are further adapted for regression tasks to predict experimental binding affinities and pIC50 is crucial for drugs potency and efficacy. We achieve a Pearson correlation coefficient of 0.66 and 0.65 on experimental affinity and 0.50 and 0.51 on pIC50 with GNNF and GNNP, respectively, outperforming similar 2D sequence-based models. Our method can serve as an interpretable and explainable artificial intelligence (AI) tool for predicted activity, potency, and biophysical properties of lead candidates. To this end, we show the utility of GNNP on SARS-Cov-2 protein targets by screening a large compound library and comparing our prediction with the experimentally measured data.

  As safety-critical autonomous vehicles (AVs) will soon become pervasive in our society, a number of safety concepts for trusted AV deployment have been recently proposed throughout industry and academia. Yet, agreeing upon an "appropriate" safety concept is still an elusive task. In this paper, we advocate for the use of Hamilton Jacobi (HJ) reachability as a unifying mathematical framework for comparing existing safety concepts, and propose ways to expand its modeling premises in a data-driven fashion. Specifically, we show that (i) existing predominant safety concepts can be embedded in the HJ reachability framework, thereby enabling a common language for comparing and contrasting modeling assumptions, and (ii) HJ reachability can serve as an inductive bias to effectively reason, in a data-driven context, about two critical, yet often overlooked aspects of safety: responsibility and context-dependency.

  Motivated by applications of large-scale graph clustering, we study random-walk-based LOCAL algorithms whose running times depend only on the size of the output cluster, rather than the entire graph. All previously known such algorithms guarantee an output conductance of $\tilde{O}(\sqrt{\phi(A)})$ when the target set $A$ has conductance $\phi(A)\in[0,1]$. In this paper, we improve it to $$\tilde{O}\bigg( \min\Big\{\sqrt{\phi(A)}, \frac{\phi(A)}{\sqrt{\mathsf{Conn}(A)}} \Big\} \bigg)\enspace, $$ where the internal connectivity parameter $\mathsf{Conn}(A) \in [0,1]$ is defined as the reciprocal of the mixing time of the random walk over the induced subgraph on $A$.   For instance, using $\mathsf{Conn}(A) = \Omega(\lambda(A) / \log n)$ where $\lambda$ is the second eigenvalue of the Laplacian of the induced subgraph on $A$, our conductance guarantee can be as good as $\tilde{O}(\phi(A)/\sqrt{\lambda(A)})$. This builds an interesting connection to the recent advance of the so-called improved Cheeger's Inequality [KKL+13], which says that global spectral algorithms can provide a conductance guarantee of $O(\phi_{\mathsf{opt}}/\sqrt{\lambda_3})$ instead of $O(\sqrt{\phi_{\mathsf{opt}}})$.   In addition, we provide theoretical guarantee on the clustering accuracy (in terms of precision and recall) of the output set. We also prove that our analysis is tight, and perform empirical evaluation to support our theory on both synthetic and real data.   It is worth noting that, our analysis outperforms prior work when the cluster is well-connected. In fact, the better it is well-connected inside, the more significant improvement (both in terms of conductance and accuracy) we can obtain. Our results shed light on why in practice some random-walk-based algorithms perform better than its previous theory, and help guide future research about local clustering.

  Learning a near optimal policy in a partially observable system remains an elusive challenge in contemporary reinforcement learning. In this work, we consider episodic reinforcement learning in a reward-mixing Markov decision process (MDP). There, a reward function is drawn from one of multiple possible reward models at the beginning of every episode, but the identity of the chosen reward model is not revealed to the agent. Hence, the latent state space, for which the dynamics are Markovian, is not given to the agent. We study the problem of learning a near optimal policy for two reward-mixing MDPs. Unlike existing approaches that rely on strong assumptions on the dynamics, we make no assumptions and study the problem in full generality. Indeed, with no further assumptions, even for two switching reward-models, the problem requires several new ideas beyond existing algorithmic and analysis techniques for efficient exploration. We provide the first polynomial-time algorithm that finds an $\epsilon$-optimal policy after exploring $\tilde{O}(poly(H,\epsilon^{-1}) \cdot S^2 A^2)$ episodes, where $H$ is time-horizon and $S, A$ are the number of states and actions respectively. This is the first efficient algorithm that does not require any assumptions in partially observed environments where the observation space is smaller than the latent state space.

  Evaluation efforts such as TREC, CLEF, NTCIR and FIRE, alongside public leaderboard such as MS MARCO, are intended to encourage research and track our progress, addressing big questions in our field. However, the goal is not simply to identify which run is "best", achieving the top score. The goal is to move the field forward by developing new robust techniques, that work in many different settings, and are adopted in research and practice. This paper uses the MS MARCO and TREC Deep Learning Track as our case study, comparing it to the case of TREC ad hoc ranking in the 1990s. We show how the design of the evaluation effort can encourage or discourage certain outcomes, and raising questions about internal and external validity of results. We provide some analysis of certain pitfalls, and a statement of best practices for avoiding such pitfalls. We summarize the progress of the effort so far, and describe our desired end state of "robust usefulness", along with steps that might be required to get us there.

  Deep neural network is a state-of-art method in modern science and technology. Much statistical literature have been devoted to understanding its performance in nonparametric estimation, whereas the results are suboptimal due to a redundant logarithmic sacrifice. In this paper, we show that such log-factors are not necessary. We derive upper bounds for the $L^2$ minimax risk in nonparametric estimation. Sufficient conditions on network architectures are provided such that the upper bounds become optimal (without log-sacrifice). Our proof relies on an explicitly constructed network estimator based on tensor product B-splines. We also derive asymptotic distributions for the constructed network and a relating hypothesis testing procedure. The testing procedure is further proven as minimax optimal under suitable network architectures.

  Constituting highly informative network embeddings is an important tool for network analysis. It encodes network topology, along with other useful side information, into low-dimensional node-based feature representations that can be exploited by statistical modeling. This work focuses on learning context-aware network embeddings augmented with text data. We reformulate the network-embedding problem, and present two novel strategies to improve over traditional attention mechanisms: ($i$) a content-aware sparse attention module based on optimal transport, and ($ii$) a high-level attention parsing module. Our approach yields naturally sparse and self-normalized relational inference. It can capture long-term interactions between sequences, thus addressing the challenges faced by existing textual network embedding schemes. Extensive experiments are conducted to demonstrate our model can consistently outperform alternative state-of-the-art methods.

  In this paper, we train a recurrent neural network to learn dynamics of a chaotic road environment and to project the future of the environment on an image. Future projection can be used to anticipate an unseen environment for example, in autonomous driving. Road environment is highly dynamic and complex due to the interaction among traffic participants such as vehicles and pedestrians. Even in this complex environment, a human driver is efficacious to safely drive on chaotic roads irrespective of the number of traffic participants. The proliferation of deep learning research has shown the efficacy of neural networks in learning this human behavior. In the same direction, we investigate recurrent neural networks to understand the chaotic road environment which is shared by pedestrians, vehicles (cars, trucks, bicycles etc.), and sometimes animals as well. We propose \emph{Foresee}, a unidirectional gated recurrent units (GRUs) network with attention to project future of the environment in the form of images. We have collected several videos on Delhi roads consisting of various traffic participants, background and infrastructure differences (like 3D pedestrian crossing) at various times on various days. We train \emph{Foresee} in an unsupervised way and we use online training to project frames up to $0.5$ seconds in advance. We show that our proposed model performs better than state of the art methods (prednet and Enc. Dec. LSTM) and finally, we show that our trained model generalizes to a public dataset for future projections.

  This paper presents a method for estimating high-resolution electricity peak demand given lower resolution data. The technique won a data competition organized by the British distribution network operator Western Power Distribution. The exercise was to estimate the minimum and maximum load values in a single substation in a one-minute resolution as precisely as possible. In contrast, the data was given in half-hourly and hourly resolutions. The winning method combines generalized additive models (GAM) and deep artificial neural networks (DNN) which are popular in load forecasting. We provide an extensive analysis of the prediction models, including the importance of input parameters with a focus on load, weather, and seasonal effects. In addition, we provide a rigorous evaluation study that goes beyond the competition frame to analyze the robustness. The results show that the proposed methods are superior, not only in the single competition month but also in the meaningful evaluation study.

  Accumulation of standardized data collections is opening up novel opportunities for holistic characterization of genome function. The limited scalability of current preprocessing techniques has, however, formed a bottleneck for full utilization of contemporary microarray collections. While short oligonucleotide arrays constitute a major source of genome-wide profiling data, scalable probe-level preprocessing algorithms have been available only for few measurement platforms based on pre-calculated model parameters from restricted reference training sets. To overcome these key limitations, we introduce a fully scalable online-learning algorithm that provides tools to process large microarray atlases including tens of thousands of arrays. Unlike the alternatives, the proposed algorithm scales up in linear time with respect to sample size and is readily applicable to all short oligonucleotide platforms. This is the only available preprocessing algorithm that can learn probe-level parameters based on sequential hyperparameter updates at small, consecutive batches of data, thus circumventing the extensive memory requirements of the standard approaches and opening up novel opportunities to take full advantage of contemporary microarray data collections. Moreover, using the most comprehensive data collections to estimate probe-level effects can assist in pinpointing individual probes affected by various biases and provide new tools to guide array design and quality control. The implementation is freely available in R/Bioconductor at http://www.bioconductor.org/packages/devel/bioc/html/RPA.html

  The true distribution parameterizations of commonly used image datasets are inaccessible. Rather than designing metrics for feature spaces with unknown characteristics, we propose to measure GAN performance by evaluating on explicitly parameterized, synthetic data distributions. As a case study, we examine the performance of 16 GAN variants on six multivariate distributions of varying dimensionalities and training set sizes. In this learning environment, we observe that: GANs exhibit similar performance trends across dimensionalities; learning depends on the underlying distribution and its complexity; the number of training samples can have a large impact on performance; evaluation and relative comparisons are metric-dependent; diverse sets of hyperparameters can produce a "best" result; and some GANs are more robust to hyperparameter changes than others. These observations both corroborate findings of previous GAN evaluation studies and make novel contributions regarding the relationship between size, complexity, and GAN performance.

  How to learn a good predictor on data with missing values? Most efforts focus on first imputing as well as possible and second learning on the completed data to predict the outcome. Yet, this widespread practice has no theoretical grounding. Here we show that for almost all imputation functions, an impute-then-regress procedure with a powerful learner is Bayes optimal. This result holds for all missing-values mechanisms, in contrast with the classic statistical results that require missing-at-random settings to use imputation in probabilistic modeling. Moreover, it implies that perfect conditional imputation is not needed for good prediction asymptotically. In fact, we show that on perfectly imputed data the best regression function will generally be discontinuous, which makes it hard to learn. Crafting instead the imputation so as to leave the regression function unchanged simply shifts the problem to learning discontinuous imputations. Rather, we suggest that it is easier to learn imputation and regression jointly. We propose such a procedure, adapting NeuMiss, a neural network capturing the conditional links across observed and unobserved variables whatever the missing-value pattern. Experiments confirm that joint imputation and regression through NeuMiss is better than various two step procedures in our experiments with finite number of samples.

  This paper presents a method for text line segmentation of challenging historical manuscript images. These manuscript images contain narrow interline spaces with touching components, interpenetrating vowel signs and inconsistent font types and sizes. In addition, they contain curved, multi-skewed and multi-directed side note lines within a complex page layout. Therefore, bounding polygon labeling would be very difficult and time consuming. Instead we rely on line masks that connect the components on the same text line. Then these line masks are predicted using a Fully Convolutional Network (FCN). In the literature, FCN has been successfully used for text line segmentation of regular handwritten document images. The present paper shows that FCN is useful with challenging manuscript images as well. Using a new evaluation metric that is sensitive to over segmentation as well as under segmentation, testing results on a publicly available challenging handwritten dataset are comparable with the results of a previous work on the same dataset.

  This paper presents a convolutional neural network (CNN) which can be used for forecasting electricity load profiles 36 hours into the future. In contrast to well established CNN architectures, the input data is one-dimensional. A parameter scanning of network parameters is conducted in order to gain information about the influence of the kernel size, number of filters, and dense size. The results show that a good forecast quality can already be achieved with basic CNN architectures.The method works not only for smooth sum loads of many hundred consumers, but also for the load of apartment buildings.

  Weighted finite automata (WFAs) have been widely applied in many fields. One of the classic problems for WFAs is probability distribution estimation over sequences of discrete symbols. Although WFAs have been extended to deal with continuous input data, namely continuous WFAs (CWFAs), it is still unclear how to approximate density functions over sequences of continuous random variables using WFA-based models, due to the limitation on the expressiveness of the model as well as the tractability of approximating density functions via CWFAs. In this paper, we propose a nonlinear extension to the CWFA model to first improve its expressiveness, we refer to it as the nonlinear continuous WFAs (NCWFAs). Then we leverage the so-called RNADE method, which is a well-known density estimator based on neural networks, and propose the RNADE-NCWFA model. The RNADE-NCWFA model computes a density function by design. We show that this model is strictly more expressive than the Gaussian HMM model, which CWFA cannot approximate. Empirically, we conduct a synthetic experiment using Gaussian HMM generated data. We focus on evaluating the model's ability to estimate densities for sequences of varying lengths (longer length than the training data). We observe that our model performs the best among the compared baseline methods.

  Variance reduction methods such as SVRG and SpiderBoost use a mixture of large and small batch gradients to reduce the variance of stochastic gradients. Compared to SGD, these methods require at least double the number of operations per update to model parameters. To reduce the computational cost of these methods, we introduce a new sparsity operator: The random-top-k operator. Our operator reduces computational complexity by estimating gradient sparsity exhibited in a variety of applications by combining the top-k operator and the randomized coordinate descent operator. With this operator, large batch gradients offer an extra benefit beyond variance reduction: A reliable estimate of gradient sparsity. Theoretically, our algorithm is at least as good as the best algorithm (SpiderBoost), and further excels in performance whenever the random-top-k operator captures gradient sparsity. Empirically, our algorithm consistently outperforms SpiderBoost using various models on various tasks including image classification, natural language processing, and sparse matrix factorization. We also provide empirical evidence to support the intuition behind our algorithm via a simple gradient entropy computation, which serves to quantify gradient sparsity at every iteration.

  Feature extraction from persistence diagrams, as a tool to enrich machine learning techniques, has received increasing attention in recent years. In this paper we explore an adaptive methodology to localize features in persistent diagrams, which are then used in learning tasks. Specifically, we investigate three algorithms, CDER, GMM and HDBSCAN, to obtain adaptive template functions/features. Said features are evaluated in three classification experiments with persistence diagrams. Namely, manifold, human shapes and protein classification. The main conclusion of our analysis is that adaptive template systems, as a feature extraction technique, yield competitive and often superior results in the studied examples. Moreover, from the adaptive algorithms here studied, CDER consistently provides the most reliable and robust adaptive featurization.

  With a goal of understanding what drives generalization in deep networks, we consider several recently suggested explanations, including norm-based control, sharpness and robustness. We study how these measures can ensure generalization, highlighting the importance of scale normalization, and making a connection between sharpness and PAC-Bayes theory. We then investigate how well the measures explain different observed phenomena.

  The popularity of location-based social networks (LBSNs) has led to a tremendous amount of user check-in data. Recommending points of interest (POIs) plays a key role in satisfying users' needs in LBSNs. While recent work has explored the idea of adopting collaborative ranking (CR) for recommendation, there have been few attempts to incorporate temporal information for POI recommendation using CR. In this article, we propose a two-phase CR algorithm that incorporates the geographical influence of POIs and is regularized based on the variance of POIs popularity and users' activities over time. The time-sensitive regularizer penalizes user and POIs that have been more time-sensitive in the past, helping the model to account for their long-term behavioral patterns while learning from user-POI interactions. Moreover, in the first phase, it attempts to rank visited POIs higher than the unvisited ones, and at the same time, apply the geographical influence. In the second phase, our algorithm tries to rank users' favorite POIs higher on the recommendation list. Both phases employ a collaborative learning strategy that enables the model to capture complex latent associations from two different perspectives. Experiments on real-world datasets show that our proposed time-sensitive collaborative ranking model beats state-of-the-art POI recommendation methods.

  In this paper, I argue that counterfactual fairness does not constitute a necessary condition for an algorithm to be fair, and subsequently suggest how the constraint can be modified in order to remedy this shortcoming. To this end, I discuss a hypothetical scenario in which counterfactual fairness and an intuitive judgment of fairness come apart. Then, I turn to the question how the concept of discrimination can be explicated in order to examine the shortcomings of counterfactual fairness as a necessary condition of algorithmic fairness in more detail. I then incorporate the insights of this analysis into a novel fairness constraint, causal relevance fairness, which is a modification of the counterfactual fairness constraint that seems to circumvent its shortcomings.

  When trained effectively, the Variational Autoencoder (VAE) can be both a powerful generative model and an effective representation learning framework for natural language. In this paper, we propose the first large-scale language VAE model, Optimus. A universal latent embedding space for sentences is first pre-trained on large text corpus, and then fine-tuned for various language generation and understanding tasks. Compared with GPT-2, Optimus enables guided language generation from an abstract level using the latent vectors. Compared with BERT, Optimus can generalize better on low-resource language understanding tasks due to the smooth latent space structure. Extensive experimental results on a wide range of language tasks demonstrate the effectiveness of Optimus. It achieves new state-of-the-art on VAE language modeling benchmarks. We hope that our first pre-trained big VAE language model itself and results can help the NLP community renew the interests of deep generative models in the era of large-scale pre-training, and make these principled methods more practical.

  The widespread adoption of smartphones dramatically increases the risk of attacks and the spread of mobile malware, especially on the Android platform. Machine learning-based solutions have been already used as a tool to supersede signature-based anti-malware systems. However, malware authors leverage features from malicious and legitimate samples to estimate statistical difference in-order to create adversarial examples. Hence, to evaluate the vulnerability of machine learning algorithms in malware detection, we propose five different attack scenarios to perturb malicious applications (apps). By doing this, the classification algorithm inappropriately fits the discriminant function on the set of data points, eventually yielding a higher misclassification rate. Further, to distinguish the adversarial examples from benign samples, we propose two defense mechanisms to counter attacks. To validate our attacks and solutions, we test our model on three different benchmark datasets. We also test our methods using various classifier algorithms and compare them with the state-of-the-art data poisoning method using the Jacobian matrix. Promising results show that generated adversarial samples can evade detection with a very high probability. Additionally, evasive variants generated by our attack models when used to harden the developed anti-malware system improves the detection rate up to 50% when using the Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) method.

  Trajectory- or path-planning is a fundamental issue in a wide variety of applications. Here we show that it is possible to solve path planning for multiple start- and end-points highly efficiently with a network that consists only of max pooling layers, for which no network training is needed. Different from competing approaches, very large mazes containing more than half a billion nodes with dense obstacle configuration and several thousand path end-points can this way be solved in very short time on parallel hardware.

  We consider increasingly complex models of matrix denoising and dictionary learning in the Bayes-optimal setting, in the challenging regime where the matrices to infer have a rank growing linearly with the system size. This is in contrast with most existing literature concerned with the low-rank (i.e., constant-rank) regime. We first consider a class of rotationally invariant matrix denoising problems whose mutual information and minimum mean-square error are computable using techniques from random matrix theory. Next, we analyze the more challenging models of dictionary learning. To do so we introduce a novel combination of the replica method from statistical mechanics together with random matrix theory, coined spectral replica method. This allows us to derive variational formulas for the mutual information between hidden representations and the noisy data of the dictionary learning problem, as well as for the overlaps quantifying the optimal reconstruction error. The proposed method reduces the number of degrees of freedom from $\Theta(N^2)$ matrix entries to $\Theta(N)$ eigenvalues (or singular values), and yields Coulomb gas representations of the mutual information which are reminiscent of matrix models in physics. The main ingredients are a combination of large deviation results for random matrices together with a new replica symmetric decoupling ansatz at the level of the probability distributions of eigenvalues (or singular values) of certain overlap matrices and the use of HarishChandra-Itzykson-Zuber spherical integrals.

  Predicting the emotional impact of videos using machine learning is a challenging task considering the varieties of modalities, the complicated temporal contex of the video as well as the time dependency of the emotional states. Feature extraction, multi-modal fusion and temporal context fusion are crucial stages for predicting valence and arousal values in the emotional impact, but have not been successfully exploited. In this paper, we propose a comprehensive framework with novel designs of modal structure and multi-modal fusion strategy. We select the most suitable modalities for valence and arousal tasks respectively and each modal feature is extracted using the modality-specific pre-trained deep model on large generic dataset. Two-time-scale structures, one for the intra-clip and the other for the inter-clip, are proposed to capture the temporal dependency of video content and emotion states. To combine the complementary information from multiple modalities, an effective and efficient residual-based progressive training strategy is proposed. Each modality is step-wisely combined into the multi-modal model, responsible for completing the missing parts of features. With all those improvements above, our proposed prediction framework achieves better performance on the LIRIS-ACCEDE dataset with a large margin compared to the state-of-the-art.

  The most data-efficient algorithms for reinforcement learning in robotics are model-based policy search algorithms, which alternate between learning a dynamical model of the robot and optimizing a policy to maximize the expected return given the model and its uncertainties. However, the current algorithms lack an effective exploration strategy to deal with sparse or misleading reward scenarios: if they do not experience any state with a positive reward during the initial random exploration, it is very unlikely to solve the problem. Here, we propose a novel model-based policy search algorithm, Multi-DEX, that leverages a learned dynamical model to efficiently explore the task space and solve tasks with sparse rewards in a few episodes. To achieve this, we frame the policy search problem as a multi-objective, model-based policy optimization problem with three objectives: (1) generate maximally novel state trajectories, (2) maximize the expected return and (3) keep the system in state-space regions for which the model is as accurate as possible. We then optimize these objectives using a Pareto-based multi-objective optimization algorithm. The experiments show that Multi-DEX is able to solve sparse reward scenarios (with a simulated robotic arm) in much lower interaction time than VIME, TRPO, GEP-PG, CMA-ES and Black-DROPS.

  The spread of COVID-19 has coincided with the rise of Graph Neural Networks (GNNs), leading to several studies proposing their use to better forecast the evolution of the pandemic. Many such models also include Long Short Term Memory (LSTM) networks, a common tool for time series forecasting. In this work, we further investigate the integration of these two methods by implementing GNNs within the gates of an LSTM and exploiting spatial information. In addition, we introduce a skip connection which proves critical to jointly capture the spatial and temporal patterns in the data. We validate our daily COVID-19 new cases forecast model on data of 37 European nations for the last 472 days and show superior performance compared to state-of-the-art graph time series models based on mean absolute scaled error (MASE). This area of research has important applications to policy-making and we analyze its potential for pandemic resource control.

  In this work we present a rigorous application of the Expectation Maximization algorithm to determine the marginal distributions and the dependence structure in a Gaussian copula model with missing data. We further show how to circumvent a priori assumptions on the marginals with semiparametric modelling. The joint distribution learned through this algorithm is considerably closer to the underlying distribution than existing methods.

  Neural networks are often used to process information from image-based sensors to produce control actions. While they are effective for this task, the complex nature of neural networks makes their output difficult to verify and predict, limiting their use in safety-critical systems. For this reason, recent work has focused on combining techniques in formal methods and reachability analysis to obtain guarantees on the closed-loop performance of neural network controllers. However, these techniques do not scale to the high-dimensional and complicated input space of image-based neural network controllers. In this work, we propose a method to address these challenges by training a generative adversarial network (GAN) to map states to plausible input images. By concatenating the generator network with the control network, we obtain a network with a low-dimensional input space. This insight allows us to use existing closed-loop verification tools to obtain formal guarantees on the performance of image-based controllers. We apply our approach to provide safety guarantees for an image-based neural network controller for an autonomous aircraft taxi problem. We guarantee that the controller will keep the aircraft on the runway and guide the aircraft towards the center of the runway. The guarantees we provide are with respect to the set of input images modeled by our generator network, so we provide a recall metric to evaluate how well the generator captures the space of plausible images.

  DQN (Deep Q-Network) is a method to perform Q-learning for reinforcement learning using deep neural networks. DQNs require a large buffer and batch processing for an experience replay and rely on a backpropagation based iterative optimization, making them difficult to be implemented on resource-limited edge devices. In this paper, we propose a lightweight on-device reinforcement learning approach for low-cost FPGA devices. It exploits a recently proposed neural-network based on-device learning approach that does not rely on the backpropagation method but uses OS-ELM (Online Sequential Extreme Learning Machine) based training algorithm. In addition, we propose a combination of L2 regularization and spectral normalization for the on-device reinforcement learning so that output values of the neural network can be fit into a certain range and the reinforcement learning becomes stable. The proposed reinforcement learning approach is designed for PYNQ-Z1 board as a low-cost FPGA platform. The evaluation results using OpenAI Gym demonstrate that the proposed algorithm and its FPGA implementation complete a CartPole-v0 task 29.77x and 89.40x faster than a conventional DQN-based approach when the number of hidden-layer nodes is 64.

  Deep neural networks have become the default choice for many of the machine learning tasks such as classification and regression. Dropout, a method commonly used to improve the convergence of deep neural networks, generates an ensemble of thinned networks with extensive weight sharing. Recent studies that dropout can be viewed as an approximate variational inference in Gaussian processes, and used as a practical tool to obtain uncertainty estimates of the network. We propose a novel statistical mechanics based framework to dropout and use this framework to propose a new generic algorithm that focuses on estimates of the variance of the loss as measured by the ensemble of thinned networks. Our approach can be applied to a wide range of deep neural network architectures and machine learning tasks. In classification, this algorithm allows the generation of a don't-know answer to be generated, which can increase the reliability of the classifier. Empirically we demonstrate state-of-the-art AUC results on publicly available benchmarks.

  Graph convolutional networks (GCNs) have been widely adopted for graph representation learning and achieved impressive performance. For larger graphs stored separately on different clients, distributed GCN training algorithms were proposed to improve efficiency and scalability. However, existing methods directly exchange node features between different clients, which results in data privacy leakage. Federated learning was incorporated in graph learning to tackle data privacy, while they suffer from severe performance drop due to non-iid data distribution. Besides, these approaches generally involve heavy communication and memory overhead during the training process. In light of these problems, we propose a Privacy-Preserving Subgraph sampling based distributed GCN training method (PPSGCN), which preserves data privacy and significantly cuts back on communication and memory overhead. Specifically, PPSGCN employs a star-topology client-server system. We firstly sample a local node subset in each client to form a global subgraph, which greatly reduces communication and memory costs. We then conduct local computation on each client with features or gradients of the sampled nodes. Finally, all clients securely communicate with the central server with homomorphic encryption to combine local results while preserving data privacy. Compared with federated graph learning methods, our PPSGCN model is trained on a global graph to avoid the negative impact of local data distribution. We prove that our PPSGCN algorithm would converge to a local optimum with probability 1. Experiment results on three prevalent benchmarks demonstrate that our algorithm significantly reduces communication and memory overhead while maintaining desirable performance. Further studies not only demonstrate the fast convergence of PPSGCN, but discuss the trade-off between communication and local computation cost as well.

  Data Poisoning attacks modify training data to maliciously control a model trained on such data. In this work, we focus on targeted poisoning attacks which cause a reclassification of an unmodified test image and as such breach model integrity. We consider a particularly malicious poisoning attack that is both "from scratch" and "clean label", meaning we analyze an attack that successfully works against new, randomly initialized models, and is nearly imperceptible to humans, all while perturbing only a small fraction of the training data. Previous poisoning attacks against deep neural networks in this setting have been limited in scope and success, working only in simplified settings or being prohibitively expensive for large datasets. The central mechanism of the new attack is matching the gradient direction of malicious examples. We analyze why this works, supplement with practical considerations. and show its threat to real-world practitioners, finding that it is the first poisoning method to cause targeted misclassification in modern deep networks trained from scratch on a full-sized, poisoned ImageNet dataset. Finally we demonstrate the limitations of existing defensive strategies against such an attack, concluding that data poisoning is a credible threat, even for large-scale deep learning systems.

  Recently, vision transformers were shown to be capable of outperforming convolutional neural networks when pretrained on sufficient amounts of data. In comparison to convolutional neural networks, vision transformers have a weaker inductive bias and therefore allow a more flexible feature detection. Due to their promising feature detection, this work explores vision transformers for tumor detection in digital pathology whole slide images in four tissue types, and for tissue type identification. We compared the patch-wise classification performance of the vision transformer DeiT-Tiny to the state-of-the-art convolutional neural network ResNet18. Due to the sparse availability of annotated whole slide images, we further compared both models pretrained on large amounts of unlabeled whole-slide images using state-of-the-art self-supervised approaches. The results show that the vision transformer performed slightly better than the ResNet18 for three of four tissue types for tumor detection while the ResNet18 performed slightly better for the remaining tasks. The aggregated predictions of both models on slide level were correlated, indicating that the models captured similar imaging features. All together, the vision transformer models performed on par with the ResNet18 while requiring more effort to train. In order to surpass the performance of convolutional neural networks, vision transformers might require more challenging tasks to benefit from their weak inductive bias.

  Adversarial training has shown impressive success in learning bilingual dictionary without any parallel data by mapping monolingual embeddings to a shared space. However, recent work has shown superior performance for non-adversarial methods in more challenging language pairs. In this work, we revisit adversarial autoencoder for unsupervised word translation and propose two novel extensions to it that yield more stable training and improved results. Our method includes regularization terms to enforce cycle consistency and input reconstruction, and puts the target encoders as an adversary against the corresponding discriminator. Extensive experimentations with European, non-European and low-resource languages show that our method is more robust and achieves better performance than recently proposed adversarial and non-adversarial approaches.

  Assuming a view of the Random Forest as a special case of a nested ensemble of interchangeable modules, we construct a generalisation space allowing one to easily develop novel methods based on this algorithm. We discuss the role and required properties of modules at each level, especially in context of some already proposed RF generalisations.

  Superpixels are higher-order perceptual groups of pixels in an image, often carrying much more information than the raw pixels. There is an inherent relational structure to the relationship among different superpixels of an image such as adjacent superpixels are neighbours of each other. Our interest here is to treat these relative positions of various superpixels as relational information of an image. This relational information can convey higher-order spatial information about the image, such as the relationship between superpixels representing two eyes in an image of a cat. That is, two eyes are placed adjacent to each other in a straight line or the mouth is below the nose. Our motive in this paper is to assist computer vision models, specifically those based on Deep Neural Networks (DNNs), by incorporating this higher-order information from superpixels. We construct a hybrid model that leverages (a) Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) to deal with spatial information in an image and (b) Graph Neural Network (GNN) to deal with relational superpixel information in the image. The proposed model is learned using a generic hybrid loss function. Our experiments are extensive, and we evaluate the predictive performance of our proposed hybrid vision model on seven different image classification datasets from a variety of domains such as digit and object recognition, biometrics, medical imaging. The results demonstrate that the relational superpixel information processed by a GNN can improve the performance of a standard CNN-based vision system.

  Existing tensor factorization methods assume that the input tensor follows some specific distribution (i.e. Poisson, Bernoulli, and Gaussian), and solve the factorization by minimizing some empirical loss functions defined based on the corresponding distribution. However, it suffers from several drawbacks: 1) In reality, the underlying distributions are complicated and unknown, making it infeasible to be approximated by a simple distribution. 2) The correlation across dimensions of the input tensor is not well utilized, leading to sub-optimal performance. Although heuristics were proposed to incorporate such correlation as side information under Gaussian distribution, they can not easily be generalized to other distributions. Thus, a more principled way of utilizing the correlation in tensor factorization models is still an open challenge. Without assuming any explicit distribution, we formulate the tensor factorization as an optimal transport problem with Wasserstein distance, which can handle non-negative inputs.   We introduce SWIFT, which minimizes the Wasserstein distance that measures the distance between the input tensor and that of the reconstruction. In particular, we define the N-th order tensor Wasserstein loss for the widely used tensor CP factorization and derive the optimization algorithm that minimizes it. By leveraging sparsity structure and different equivalent formulations for optimizing computational efficiency, SWIFT is as scalable as other well-known CP algorithms. Using the factor matrices as features, SWIFT achieves up to 9.65% and 11.31% relative improvement over baselines for downstream prediction tasks. Under the noisy conditions, SWIFT achieves up to 15% and 17% relative improvements over the best competitors for the prediction tasks.

  In recent years, there has been increasing demand for automatic architecture search in deep learning. Numerous approaches have been proposed and led to state-of-the-art results in various applications, including image classification and language modeling. In this paper, we propose a novel way of architecture search by means of weighted networks (WeNet), which consist of a number of networks, with each assigned a weight. These weights are updated with back-propagation to reflect the importance of different networks. Such weighted networks bear similarity to mixture of experts. We conduct experiments on Penn Treebank and WikiText-2. We show that the proposed WeNet can find recurrent architectures which result in state-of-the-art performance.

  Identifying sleep stages and patterns is an essential part of diagnosing and treating sleep disorders. With the advancement of smart technologies, sensor data related to sleeping patterns can be captured easily. In this paper, we propose a Convolution Neural Network (CNN) architecture that improves the classification performance. In particular, we benchmark the classification performance from different methods, including traditional machine learning methods such as Logistic Regression (LR), Decision Trees (DT), k-Nearest Neighbour (k-NN), Naive Bayes (NB) and Support Vector Machine (SVM), on 3 publicly available sleep datasets. The accuracy, sensitivity, specificity, precision, recall, and F-score are reported and will serve as a baseline to simulate the research in this direction in the future.

  This paper addresses the task of zero-shot image classification. The key contribution of the proposed approach is to control the semantic embedding of images -- one of the main ingredients of zero-shot learning -- by formulating it as a metric learning problem. The optimized empirical criterion associates two types of sub-task constraints: metric discriminating capacity and accurate attribute prediction. This results in a novel expression of zero-shot learning not requiring the notion of class in the training phase: only pairs of image/attributes, augmented with a consistency indicator, are given as ground truth. At test time, the learned model can predict the consistency of a test image with a given set of attributes , allowing flexible ways to produce recognition inferences. Despite its simplicity, the proposed approach gives state-of-the-art results on four challenging datasets used for zero-shot recognition evaluation.

  In this dissertation, I derive a new method to estimate the Vapnik-Chervonenkis Dimension (VCD) for the class of linear functions. This method is inspired by the technique developed by Vapnik et al. Vapnik et al. (1994). My contribution rests on the approximation of the expected maximum difference between two empirical Losses (EMDBTEL). In fact, I use a cross-validated form of the error to compute the EMDBTEL, and I make the bound on the EMDBTEL tighter by minimizing a constant in of its right upper bound. I also derive two bounds for the true unknown risk using the additive (ERM1) and the multiplicative (ERM2) Chernoff bounds. These bounds depend on the estimated VCD and the empirical risk. These bounds can be used to perform model selection and to declare with high probability, the chosen model will perform better without making strong assumptions about the data generating process (DG).   I measure the accuracy of my technique on simulated datasets and also on three real datasets. The model selection provided by VCD was always as good as if not better than the other methods under reasonable conditions.

  Clinical risk stratification for sudden cardiac death (SCD) in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HC) employs rules derived from American College of Cardiology Foundation/American Heart Association (ACCF/AHA) guidelines or the HCM Risk-SCD model (C-index of 0.69), which utilize a few clinical variables. We assessed whether data-driven machine learning methods that consider a wider range of variables can effectively identify HC patients with ventricular arrhythmias (VAr) that lead to SCD. We scanned the electronic health records of 711 HC patients for sustained ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation. Patients with ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation (n = 61) were tagged as VAr cases and the remaining (n = 650) as non-VAr. The 2-sample t test and information gain criterion were used to identify the most informative clinical variables that distinguish VAr from non-VAr; patient records were reduced to include only these variables. Data imbalance stemming from low number of VAr cases was addressed by applying a combination of over- and under-sampling strategies.We trained and tested multiple classifiers under this sampling approach, showing effective classification. We evaluated 93 clinical variables, of which 22 proved predictive of VAr. The ensemble of logistic regression and naive Bayes classifiers, trained based on these 22 variables and corrected for data imbalance, was most effective in separating VAr from non-VAr cases (sensitivity = 0.73, specificity = 0.76, C-index = 0.83). Our method (HCM-VAr-Risk Model) identified 12 new predictors of VAr, in addition to 10 established SCD predictors. In conclusion, this is the first application of machine learning for identifying HC patients with VAr, using clinical attributes.

  Knowledge graph construction consists of two tasks: extracting information from external resources (knowledge population) and inferring missing information through a statistical analysis on the extracted information (knowledge completion). In many cases, insufficient external resources in the knowledge population hinder the subsequent statistical inference. The gap between these two processes can be reduced by an incremental population approach. We propose a new probabilistic knowledge graph factorisation method that benefits from the path structure of existing knowledge (e.g. syllogism) and enables a common modelling approach to be used for both incremental population and knowledge completion tasks. More specifically, the probabilistic formulation allows us to develop an incremental population algorithm that trades off exploitation-exploration. Experiments on three benchmark datasets show that the balanced exploitation-exploration helps the incremental population, and the additional path structure helps to predict missing information in knowledge completion.

  Deep Generative Machine Learning Models have been growing in popularity across the design community thanks to their ability to learn and mimic complex data distributions. While early works are promising, further advancement will depend on addressing several critical considerations such as design quality, feasibility, novelty, and targeted inverse design. We propose the Design Target Achievement Index (DTAI), a differentiable, tunable metric that scores a design's ability to achieve designer-specified minimum performance targets. We demonstrate that DTAI can drastically improve the performance of generated designs when directly used as a training loss in Deep Generative Models. We apply the DTAI loss to a Performance-Augmented Diverse GAN (PaDGAN) and demonstrate superior generative performance compared to a set of baseline Deep Generative Models including a Multi-Objective PaDGAN and specialized tabular generation algorithms like the Conditional Tabular GAN (CTGAN). We further enhance PaDGAN with an auxiliary feasibility classifier to encourage feasible designs. To evaluate methods, we propose a comprehensive set of evaluation metrics for generative methods that focus on feasibility, diversity, and satisfaction of design performance targets. Methods are tested on a challenging benchmarking problem: the FRAMED bicycle frame design dataset featuring mixed-datatype parametric data, heavily skewed and multimodal distributions, and ten competing performance objectives.

  Evaluating the readability of a text can significantly facilitate the precise expression of information in a written form. The formulation of text readability assessment demands the identification of meaningful properties of the text and correct conversion of features to the right readability level. Sophisticated features and models are being used to evaluate the comprehensibility of texts accurately. Still, these models are challenging to implement, heavily language-dependent, and do not perform well on short texts. Deep reinforcement learning models are demonstrated to be helpful in further improvement of state-of-the-art text readability assessment models. The main contributions of the proposed approach are the automation of feature extraction, loosening the tight language dependency of text readability assessment task, and efficient use of text by finding the minimum portion of a text required to assess its readability. The experiments on Weebit, Cambridge Exams, and Persian readability datasets display the model's state-of-the-art precision, efficiency, and the capability to be applied to other languages.

  CNNs exhibit many behaviors different from humans, one of which is the capability of employing high-frequency components. This paper discusses the frequency bias phenomenon in image classification tasks: the high-frequency components are actually much less exploited than the low- and mid-frequency components. We first investigate the frequency bias phenomenon by presenting two observations on feature discrimination and learning priority. Furthermore, we hypothesize that (i) the spectral density, (ii) class consistency directly affect the frequency bias. Specifically, our investigations verify that the spectral density of datasets mainly affects the learning priority, while the class consistency mainly affects the feature discrimination.

  In reinforcement learning, a decision needs to be made at some point as to whether it is worthwhile to carry on with the learning process or to terminate it. In many such situations, stochastic elements are often present which govern the occurrence of rewards, with the sequential occurrences of positive rewards randomly interleaved with negative rewards. For most practical learners, the learning is considered useful if the number of positive rewards always exceeds the negative ones. A situation that often calls for learning termination is when the number of negative rewards exceeds the number of positive rewards. However, while this seems reasonable, the error of premature termination, whereby termination is enacted along with the conclusion of learning failure despite the positive rewards eventually far outnumber the negative ones, can be significant. In this paper, using combinatorial analysis we study the error probability in wrongly terminating a reinforcement learning activity which undermines the effectiveness of an optimal policy, and we show that the resultant error can be quite high. Whilst we demonstrate mathematically that such errors can never be eliminated, we propose some practical mechanisms that can effectively reduce such errors. Simulation experiments have been carried out, the results of which are in close agreement with our theoretical findings.

  Deep reinforcement learning (RL) has enabled training action-selection policies, end-to-end, by learning a function which maps image pixels to action outputs. However, it's application to visuomotor robotic policy training has been limited because of the challenge of large-scale data collection when working with physical hardware. A suitable visuomotor policy should perform well not just for the task-setup it has been trained for, but also for all varieties of the task, including novel objects at different viewpoints surrounded by task-irrelevant objects. However, it is impractical for a robotic setup to sufficiently collect interactive samples in a RL framework to generalize well to novel aspects of a task. In this work, we demonstrate that by using adversarial training for domain transfer, it is possible to train visuomotor policies based on RL frameworks, and then transfer the acquired policy to other novel task domains. We propose to leverage the deep RL capabilities to learn complex visuomotor skills for uncomplicated task setups, and then exploit transfer learning to generalize to new task domains provided only still images of the task in the target domain. We evaluate our method on two real robotic tasks, picking and pouring, and compare it to a number of prior works, demonstrating its superiority.

  Although the Music Sight Reading process has been studied from the cognitive psychology view points, but the computational learning methods like the Reinforcement Learning have not yet been used to modeling of such processes. In this paper, with regards to essential properties of our specific problem, we consider the value function concept and will indicate that the optimum policy can be obtained by the method we offer without to be getting involved with computing of the complex value functions. Also, we will offer a normative behavioral model for the interaction of the agent with the musical pitch environment and by using a slightly different version of Partially observable Markov decision processes we will show that our method helps for faster learning of state-action pairs in our implemented agents.

  In this paper, we introduce a new machine learning (ML) model for nonlinear regression called the Boosted Smooth Transition Regression Trees (BooST), which is a combination of boosting algorithms with smooth transition regression trees. The main advantage of the BooST model is the estimation of the derivatives (partial effects) of very general nonlinear models. Therefore, the model can provide more interpretation about the mapping between the covariates and the dependent variable than other tree-based models, such as Random Forests. We present several examples with both simulated and real data.

  When transferring a control policy from simulation to a physical system, the policy needs to be robust to variations in the dynamics to perform well. Commonly, the optimal policy overfits to the approximate model and the corresponding state-distribution, often resulting in failure to trasnfer underlying distributional shifts. In this paper, we present Robust Fitted Value Iteration, which uses dynamic programming to compute the optimal value function on the compact state domain and incorporates adversarial perturbations of the system dynamics. The adversarial perturbations encourage a optimal policy that is robust to changes in the dynamics. Utilizing the continuous-time perspective of reinforcement learning, we derive the optimal perturbations for the states, actions, observations and model parameters in closed-form. Notably, the resulting algorithm does not require discretization of states or actions. Therefore, the optimal adversarial perturbations can be efficiently incorporated in the min-max value function update. We apply the resulting algorithm to the physical Furuta pendulum and cartpole. By changing the masses of the systems we evaluate the quantitative and qualitative performance across different model parameters. We show that robust value iteration is more robust compared to deep reinforcement learning algorithm and the non-robust version of the algorithm. Videos of the experiments are shown at https://sites.google.com/view/rfvi

  Despite tremendous progress in computer vision, there has not been an attempt for machine learning on very large-scale medical image databases. We present an interleaved text/image deep learning system to extract and mine the semantic interactions of radiology images and reports from a national research hospital's Picture Archiving and Communication System. With natural language processing, we mine a collection of representative ~216K two-dimensional key images selected by clinicians for diagnostic reference, and match the images with their descriptions in an automated manner. Our system interleaves between unsupervised learning and supervised learning on document- and sentence-level text collections, to generate semantic labels and to predict them given an image. Given an image of a patient scan, semantic topics in radiology levels are predicted, and associated key-words are generated. Also, a number of frequent disease types are detected as present or absent, to provide more specific interpretation of a patient scan. This shows the potential of large-scale learning and prediction in electronic patient records available in most modern clinical institutions.

  With the rapid increase of valuable observational, experimental and simulated data for complex systems, much efforts have been devoted to identifying governing laws underlying the evolution of these systems. Despite the wide applications of non-Gaussian fluctuations in numerous physical phenomena, the data-driven approaches to extract stochastic dynamical systems with (non-Gaussian) L\'evy noise are relatively few so far. In this work, we propose a data-driven method to extract stochastic dynamical systems with $\alpha$-stable L\'evy noise from short burst data based on the properties of $\alpha$-stable distributions. More specifically, we first estimate the L\'evy jump measure and noise intensity via computing mean and variance of the amplitude of the increment of the sample paths. Then we approximate the drift coefficient by combining nonlocal Kramers-Moyal formulas with normalizing flows. Numerical experiments on one- and two-dimensional prototypical examples illustrate the accuracy and effectiveness of our method. This approach will become an effective scientific tool in discovering stochastic governing laws of complex phenomena and understanding dynamical behaviors under non-Gaussian fluctuations.

  Time-synchronized state estimation for reconfigurable distribution networks is challenging because of limited real-time observability. This paper addresses this challenge by formulating a deep learning (DL)-based approach for topology identification (TI) and unbalanced three-phase distribution system state estimation (DSSE). Two deep neural networks (DNNs) are trained for time-synchronized DNN-based TI and DSSE, respectively, for systems that are incompletely observed by synchrophasor measurement devices (SMDs) in real-time. A data-driven approach for judicious SMD placement to facilitate reliable TI and DSSE is also provided. Robustness of the proposed methodology is demonstrated by considering non-Gaussian noise in the SMD measurements. A comparison of the DNN-based DSSE with more conventional approaches indicates that the DL-based approach gives better accuracy with smaller number of SMDs.

  In recommendation systems, the existence of the missing-not-at-random (MNAR) problem results in the selection bias issue, degrading the recommendation performance ultimately. A common practice to address MNAR is to treat missing entries from the so-called "exposure" perspective, i.e., modeling how an item is exposed (provided) to a user. Most of the existing approaches use heuristic models or re-weighting strategy on observed ratings to mimic the missing-at-random setting. However, little research has been done to reveal how the ratings are missing from a causal perspective. To bridge the gap, we propose an unbiased and robust method called DENC (De-bias Network Confounding in Recommendation) inspired by confounder analysis in causal inference. In general, DENC provides a causal analysis on MNAR from both the inherent factors (e.g., latent user or item factors) and auxiliary network's perspective. Particularly, the proposed exposure model in DENC can control the social network confounder meanwhile preserves the observed exposure information. We also develop a deconfounding model through the balanced representation learning to retain the primary user and item features, which enables DENC generalize well on the rating prediction. Extensive experiments on three datasets validate that our proposed model outperforms the state-of-the-art baselines.

  Online recommendation services recommend multiple commodities to users. Nowadays, a considerable proportion of users visit e-commerce platforms by mobile devices. Due to the limited screen size of mobile devices, positions of items have a significant influence on clicks: 1) Higher positions lead to more clicks for one commodity. 2) The 'pseudo-exposure' issue: Only a few recommended items are shown at first glance and users need to slide the screen to browse other items. Therefore, some recommended items ranked behind are not viewed by users and it is not proper to treat this kind of items as negative samples. While many works model the online recommendation as contextual bandit problems, they rarely take the influence of positions into consideration and thus the estimation of the reward function may be biased. In this paper, we aim at addressing these two issues to improve the performance of online mobile recommendation. Our contributions are four-fold. First, since we concern the reward of a set of recommended items, we model the online recommendation as a contextual combinatorial bandit problem and define the reward of a recommended set. Second, we propose a novel contextual combinatorial bandit method called UBM-LinUCB to address two issues related to positions by adopting the User Browsing Model (UBM), a click model for web search. Third, we provide a formal regret analysis and prove that our algorithm achieves sublinear regret independent of the number of items. Finally, we evaluate our algorithm on two real-world datasets by a novel unbiased estimator. An online experiment is also implemented in Taobao, one of the most popular e-commerce platforms in the world. Results on two CTR metrics show that our algorithm outperforms the other contextual bandit algorithms.

  Multi-Armed-Bandit frameworks have often been used by researchers to assess educational interventions, however, recent work has shown that it is more beneficial for a student to provide qualitative feedback through preference elicitation between different alternatives, making a dueling bandits framework more appropriate. In this paper, we explore the statistical quality of data under this framework by comparing traditional uniform sampling to a dueling bandit algorithm and find that dueling bandit algorithms perform well at cumulative regret minimisation, but lead to inflated Type-I error rates and reduced power under certain circumstances. Through these results we provide insight into the challenges and opportunities in using dueling bandit algorithms to run adaptive experiments.

  Anomaly detection is a well-established research area that seeks to identify samples outside of a predetermined distribution. An anomaly detection pipeline is comprised of two main stages: (1) feature extraction and (2) normality score assignment. Recent papers used pre-trained networks for feature extraction achieving state-of-the-art results. However, the use of pre-trained networks does not fully-utilize the normal samples that are available at train time. This paper suggests taking advantage of this information by using teacher-student training. In our setting, a pretrained teacher network is used to train a student network on the normal training samples. Since the student network is trained only on normal samples, it is expected to deviate from the teacher network in abnormal cases. This difference can serve as a complementary representation to the pre-trained feature vector. Our method -- Transformaly -- exploits a pre-trained Vision Transformer (ViT) to extract both feature vectors: the pre-trained (agnostic) features and the teacher-student (fine-tuned) features. We report state-of-the-art AUROC results in both the common unimodal setting, where one class is considered normal and the rest are considered abnormal, and the multimodal setting, where all classes but one are considered normal, and just one class is considered abnormal. The code is available at https://github.com/MatanCohen1/Transformaly.

  Understanding the adaptation process of plants to drought stress is essential in improving management practices, breeding strategies as well as engineering viable crops for a sustainable agriculture in the coming decades. Hyper-spectral imaging provides a particularly promising approach to gain such understanding since it allows to discover non-destructively spectral characteristics of plants governed primarily by scattering and absorption characteristics of the leaf internal structure and biochemical constituents. Several drought stress indices have been derived using hyper-spectral imaging. However, they are typically based on few hyper-spectral images only, rely on interpretations of experts, and consider few wavelengths only. In this study, we present the first data-driven approach to discovering spectral drought stress indices, treating it as an unsupervised labeling problem at massive scale. To make use of short range dependencies of spectral wavelengths, we develop an online variational Bayes algorithm for latent Dirichlet allocation with convolved Dirichlet regularizer. This approach scales to massive datasets and, hence, provides a more objective complement to plant physiological practices. The spectral topics found conform to plant physiological knowledge and can be computed in a fraction of the time compared to existing LDA approaches.

  Lately, pre-trained language models advanced the field of natural language processing (NLP). The introduction of Bidirectional Encoders for Transformers (BERT) and its optimized version RoBERTa have had significant impact and increased the relevance of pre-trained models. First, research in this field mainly started on English data followed by models trained with multilingual text corpora. However, current research shows that multilingual models are inferior to monolingual models. Currently, no German single language RoBERTa model is yet published, which we introduce in this work (GottBERT). The German portion of the OSCAR data set was used as text corpus. In an evaluation we compare its performance on the two Named Entity Recognition (NER) tasks Conll 2003 and GermEval 2014 as well as on the text classification tasks GermEval 2018 (fine and coarse) and GNAD with existing German single language BERT models and two multilingual ones. GottBERT was pre-trained related to the original RoBERTa model using fairseq. All downstream tasks were trained using hyperparameter presets taken from the benchmark of German BERT. The experiments were setup utilizing FARM. Performance was measured by the $F_{1}$ score. GottBERT was successfully pre-trained on a 256 core TPU pod using the RoBERTa BASE architecture. Even without extensive hyper-parameter optimization, in all NER and one text classification task, GottBERT already outperformed all other tested German and multilingual models. In order to support the German NLP field, we publish GottBERT under the AGPLv3 license.

  Active learning continues to remain significant in the industry since it is data efficient. Not only is it cost effective on a constrained budget, continuous refinement of the model allows for early detection and resolution of failure scenarios during the model development stage. Identifying and fixing failures with the model is crucial as industrial applications demand that the underlying model performs accurately in all foreseeable use cases. One popular state-of-the-art technique that specializes in continuously refining the model via failure identification is Learning Loss. Although simple and elegant, this approach is empirically motivated. Our paper develops a foundation for Learning Loss which enables us to propose a novel modification we call LearningLoss++. We show that gradients are crucial in interpreting how Learning Loss works, with rigorous analysis and comparison of the gradients between Learning Loss and LearningLoss++. We also propose a convolutional architecture that combines features at different scales to predict the loss. We validate LearningLoss++ for regression on the task of human pose estimation (using MPII and LSP datasets), as done in Learning Loss. We show that LearningLoss++ outperforms in identifying scenarios where the model is likely to perform poorly, which on model refinement translates into reliable performance in the open world.

  Recent work has shown that additive threat models, which only permit the addition of bounded noise to the pixels of an image, are insufficient for fully capturing the space of imperceivable adversarial examples. For example, small rotations and spatial transformations can fool classifiers, remain imperceivable to humans, but have large additive distance from the original images. In this work, we leverage quantitative perceptual metrics like LPIPS and SSIM to define a novel threat model for adversarial attacks.   To demonstrate the value of quantifying the perceptual distortion of adversarial examples, we present and employ a unifying framework fusing different attack styles. We first prove that our framework results in images that are unattainable by attack styles in isolation. We then perform adversarial training using attacks generated by our framework to demonstrate that networks are only robust to classes of adversarial perturbations they have been trained against, and combination attacks are stronger than any of their individual components. Finally, we experimentally demonstrate that our combined attacks retain the same perceptual distortion but induce far higher misclassification rates when compared against individual attacks.

  Two of the most popular modelling paradigms in computer vision are feed-forward neural networks (FFNs) and probabilistic graphical models (GMs). Various connections between the two have been studied in recent works, such as e.g. expressing mean-field based inference in a GM as an FFN. This paper establishes a new connection between FFNs and GMs. Our key observation is that any FFN implements a certain approximation of a corresponding Bayesian network (BN). We characterize various benefits of having this connection. In particular, it results in a new learning algorithm for BNs. We validate the proposed methods for a classification problem on CIFAR-10 dataset and for binary image segmentation on Weizmann Horse dataset. We show that statistically learned BNs improve performance, having at the same time essentially better generalization capability, than their FFN counterparts.

  Approximate Bayesian computation (ABC) is a popular likelihood-free inference method for models with intractable likelihood functions. As ABC methods usually rely on comparing summary statistics of observed and simulated data, the choice of the statistics is crucial. This choice involves a trade-off between loss of information and dimensionality reduction, and is often determined based on domain knowledge. However, handcrafting and selecting suitable statistics is a laborious task involving multiple trial-and-error steps. In this work, we introduce an active learning method for ABC statistics selection which reduces the domain expert's work considerably. By involving the experts, we are able to handle misspecified models, unlike the existing dimension reduction methods. Moreover, empirical results show better posterior estimates than with existing methods, when the simulation budget is limited.

  When training neural networks, the use of Synthetic Gradients (SG) allows layers or modules to be trained without update locking - without waiting for a true error gradient to be backpropagated - resulting in Decoupled Neural Interfaces (DNIs). This unlocked ability of being able to update parts of a neural network asynchronously and with only local information was demonstrated to work empirically in Jaderberg et al (2016). However, there has been very little demonstration of what changes DNIs and SGs impose from a functional, representational, and learning dynamics point of view. In this paper, we study DNIs through the use of synthetic gradients on feed-forward networks to better understand their behaviour and elucidate their effect on optimisation. We show that the incorporation of SGs does not affect the representational strength of the learning system for a neural network, and prove the convergence of the learning system for linear and deep linear models. On practical problems we investigate the mechanism by which synthetic gradient estimators approximate the true loss, and, surprisingly, how that leads to drastically different layer-wise representations. Finally, we also expose the relationship of using synthetic gradients to other error approximation techniques and find a unifying language for discussion and comparison.

  Sparse deep neural networks have proven to be efficient for predictive model building in large-scale studies. Although several works have studied theoretical and numerical properties of sparse neural architectures, they have primarily focused on the edge selection. Sparsity through edge selection might be intuitively appealing; however, it does not necessarily reduce the structural complexity of a network. Instead pruning excessive nodes in each layer leads to a structurally sparse network which would have lower computational complexity and memory footprint. We propose a Bayesian sparse solution using spike-and-slab Gaussian priors to allow for node selection during training. The use of spike-and-slab prior alleviates the need of an ad-hoc thresholding rule for pruning redundant nodes from a network. In addition, we adopt a variational Bayes approach to circumvent the computational challenges of traditional Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) implementation. In the context of node selection, we establish the fundamental result of variational posterior consistency together with the characterization of prior parameters. In contrast to the previous works, our theoretical development relaxes the assumptions of the equal number of nodes and uniform bounds on all network weights, thereby accommodating sparse networks with layer-dependent node structures or coefficient bounds. With a layer-wise characterization of prior inclusion probabilities, we also discuss optimal contraction rates of the variational posterior. Finally, we provide empirical evidence to substantiate that our theoretical work facilitates layer-wise optimal node recovery together with competitive predictive performance.

  Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) algorithms are often used for approximate inference inside learning, but their slow mixing can be difficult to diagnose and the approximations can seriously degrade learning. To alleviate these issues, we define a new model family using strong Doeblin Markov chains, whose mixing times can be precisely controlled by a parameter. We also develop an algorithm to learn such models, which involves maximizing the data likelihood under the induced stationary distribution of these chains. We show empirical improvements on two challenging inference tasks.

  Extractive compression is a challenging natural language processing problem. This work contributes by formulating neural extractive compression as a parse tree transduction problem, rather than a sequence transduction task. Motivated by this, we introduce a deep neural model for learning structure-to-substructure tree transductions by extending the standard Long Short-Term Memory, considering the parent-child relationships in the structural recursion. The proposed model can achieve state of the art performance on sentence compression benchmarks, both in terms of accuracy and compression rate.

  Communication in parallel systems imposes significant overhead which often turns out to be a bottleneck in parallel machine learning. To relieve some of this overhead, in this paper, we present EventGraD - an algorithm with event-triggered communication for stochastic gradient descent in parallel machine learning. The main idea of this algorithm is to modify the requirement of communication at every iteration in standard implementations of stochastic gradient descent in parallel machine learning to communicating only when necessary at certain iterations. We provide theoretical analysis of convergence of our proposed algorithm. We also implement the proposed algorithm for data-parallel training of a popular residual neural network used for training the CIFAR-10 dataset and show that EventGraD can reduce the communication load by up to 60% while retaining the same level of accuracy. In addition, EventGraD can be combined with other approaches such as Top-K sparsification to decrease communication further while maintaining accuracy.

  Dataset distillation aims to learn a small synthetic dataset that preserves most of the information from the original dataset. Dataset distillation can be formulated as a bi-level meta-learning problem where the outer loop optimizes the meta-dataset and the inner loop trains a model on the distilled data. Meta-gradient computation is one of the key challenges in this formulation, as differentiating through the inner loop learning procedure introduces significant computation and memory costs. In this paper, we address these challenges using neural Feature Regression with Pooling (FRePo), achieving the state-of-the-art performance with an order of magnitude less memory requirement and two orders of magnitude faster training than previous methods. The proposed algorithm is analogous to truncated backpropagation through time with a pool of models to alleviate various types of overfitting in dataset distillation. FRePo significantly outperforms the previous methods on CIFAR100, Tiny ImageNet, and ImageNet-1K. Furthermore, we show that high-quality distilled data can greatly improve various downstream applications, such as continual learning and membership inference defense.

  Estimating heart rate is important for monitoring users in various situations. Estimates based on facial videos are increasingly being researched because it makes it possible to monitor cardiac information in a non-invasive way and because the devices are simpler, requiring only cameras that capture the user's face. From these videos of the user's face, machine learning is able to estimate heart rate. This study investigates the benefits and challenges of using machine learning models to estimate heart rate from facial videos, through patents, datasets, and articles review. We searched Derwent Innovation, IEEE Xplore, Scopus, and Web of Science knowledge bases and identified 7 patent filings, 11 datasets, and 20 articles on heart rate, photoplethysmography, or electrocardiogram data. In terms of patents, we note the advantages of inventions related to heart rate estimation, as described by the authors. In terms of datasets, we discovered that most of them are for academic purposes and with different signs and annotations that allow coverage for subjects other than heartbeat estimation. In terms of articles, we discovered techniques, such as extracting regions of interest for heart rate reading and using Video Magnification for small motion extraction, and models such as EVM-CNN and VGG-16, that extract the observed individual's heart rate, the best regions of interest for signal extraction and ways to process them.

We study square loss in a realizable time-series framework with martingale difference noise. Our main result is a fast rate excess risk bound which shows that whenever a trajectory hypercontractivity condition holds, the risk of the least-squares estimator on dependent data matches the iid rate order-wise after a burn-in time. In comparison, many existing results in learning from dependent data have rates where the effective sample size is deflated by a factor of the mixing-time of the underlying process, even after the burn-in time. Furthermore, our results allow the covariate process to exhibit long range correlations which are substantially weaker than geometric ergodicity. We call this phenomenon learning with little mixing, and present several examples for when it occurs: bounded function classes for which the $L^2$ and $L^{2+\epsilon}$ norms are equivalent, ergodic finite state Markov chains, various parametric models, and a broad family of infinite dimensional $\ell^2(\mathbb{N})$ ellipsoids. By instantiating our main result to system identification of nonlinear dynamics with generalized linear model transitions, we obtain a nearly minimax optimal excess risk bound after only a polynomial burn-in time.

  Graph Neural Networks (GNNs), due to their capability to learn complex relations (edges) among attributed objects (nodes) within graph datasets, have already been widely used in various graph mining tasks. Considerable efforts have been devoted to improving GNN learning through designing new architectures and/or loss objectives. In this paper, we introduce a novel GNN learning framework, called AKE-GNN (Adaptive-Knowledge-Exchange GNN), which adaptively exchanges diverse knowledge learned from multiple graph views generated by graph augmentations. Specifically, AKE-GNN iteratively exchanges redundant channels in the weight matrix of one GNN by informative channels of another GNN in a layer-wise manner. Furthermore, existing GNN models can be seamlessly incorporated into our framework. Extensive experiments on node classification, graph classification, and edge prediction demonstrate the effectiveness of AKE-GNN. In particular, we conduct a series of experiments on 15 public benchmarks, 8 popular GNN models, and 3 graph tasks -- node classification, graph classification, and edge prediction -- and show that AKE-GNN consistently outperforms existing popular GNN models and even their ensembles. On the Cora semi-supervised node classification dataset, our framework achieves new state-of-the-art results. Extensive ablation studies and analyses on knowledge exchange methods also verify the effectiveness of AKE-GNN.

  While a large body of empirical results show that temporally-extended actions and options may significantly affect the learning performance of an agent, the theoretical understanding of how and when options can be beneficial in online reinforcement learning is relatively limited. In this paper, we derive an upper and lower bound on the regret of a variant of UCRL using options. While we first analyze the algorithm in the general case of semi-Markov decision processes (SMDPs), we show how these results can be translated to the specific case of MDPs with options and we illustrate simple scenarios in which the regret of learning with options can be \textit{provably} much smaller than the regret suffered when learning with primitive actions.

  We give a local search based algorithm for $k$-median and $k$-means (and more generally for any $k$-clustering with $\ell_p$ norm cost function) from the perspective of individual fairness. More precisely, for a point $x$ in a point set $P$ of size $n$, let $r(x)$ be the minimum radius such that the ball of radius $r(x)$ centered at $x$ has at least $n/k$ points from $P$. Intuitively, if a set of $k$ random points are chosen from $P$ as centers, every point $x\in P$ expects to have a center within radius $r(x)$. An individually fair clustering provides such a guarantee for every point $x\in P$. This notion of fairness was introduced in [Jung et al., 2019] where they showed how to get an approximately feasible $k$-clustering with respect to this fairness condition.   In this work, we show how to get a bicriteria approximation for fair $k$-clustering: The $k$-median ($k$-means) cost of our solution is within a constant factor of the cost of an optimal fair $k$-clustering, and our solution approximately satisfies the fairness condition (also within a constant factor). Further, we complement our theoretical bounds with empirical evaluation.

Implicit processes (IPs) are a generalization of Gaussian processes (GPs). IPs may lack a closed-form expression but are easy to sample from. Examples include, among others, Bayesian neural networks or neural samplers. IPs can be used as priors over functions, resulting in flexible models with well-calibrated prediction uncertainty estimates. Methods based on IPs usually carry out function-space approximate inference, which overcomes some of the difficulties of parameter-space approximate inference. Nevertheless, the approximations employed often limit the expressiveness of the final model, resulting, \emph{e.g.}, in a Gaussian predictive distribution, which can be restrictive. We propose here a multi-layer generalization of IPs called the Deep Variational Implicit process (DVIP). This generalization is similar to that of deep GPs over GPs, but it is more flexible due to the use of IPs as the prior distribution over the latent functions. We describe a scalable variational inference algorithm for training DVIP and show that it outperforms previous IP-based methods and also deep GPs. We support these claims via extensive regression and classification experiments. We also evaluate DVIP on large datasets with up to several million data instances to illustrate its good scalability and performance.

  Skip connections are increasingly utilized by deep neural networks to improve accuracy and cost-efficiency. In particular, the recent DenseNet is efficient in computation and parameters, and achieves state-of-the-art predictions by directly connecting each feature layer to all previous ones. However, DenseNet's extreme connectivity pattern may hinder its scalability to high depths, and in applications like fully convolutional networks, full DenseNet connections are prohibitively expensive. This work first experimentally shows that one key advantage of skip connections is to have short distances among feature layers during backpropagation. Specifically, using a fixed number of skip connections, the connection patterns with shorter backpropagation distance among layers have more accurate predictions. Following this insight, we propose a connection template, Log-DenseNet, which, in comparison to DenseNet, only slightly increases the backpropagation distances among layers from 1 to ($1 + \log_2 L$), but uses only $L\log_2 L$ total connections instead of $O(L^2)$. Hence, Log-DenseNets are easier than DenseNets to implement and to scale. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our design principle by showing better performance than DenseNets on tabula rasa semantic segmentation, and competitive results on visual recognition.

  This paper compares two different types of data-driven control methods, representing model-based and model-free approaches. One is a recently proposed method - Deep Koopman Representation for Control (DKRC), which utilizes a deep neural network to map an unknown nonlinear dynamical system to a high-dimensional linear system, which allows for employing state-of-the-art control strategy. The other one is a classic model-free control method based on an actor-critic architecture - Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient (DDPG), which has been proved to be effective in various dynamical systems. The comparison is carried out in OpenAI Gym, which provides multiple control environments for benchmark purposes. Two examples are provided for comparison, i.e., classic Inverted Pendulum and Lunar Lander Continuous Control. From the results of the experiments, we compare these two methods in terms of control strategies and the effectiveness under various initialization conditions. We also examine the learned dynamic model from DKRC with the analytical model derived from the Euler-Lagrange Linearization method, which demonstrates the accuracy in the learned model for unknown dynamics from a data-driven sample-efficient approach.

Quantum networking relies on the management and exploitation of entanglement. Practical sources of entangled qubits are imperfect, producing mixed quantum state with reduced fidelity with respect to ideal Bell pairs. Therefore, an important primitive for quantum networking is entanglement distillation, whose goal is to enhance the fidelity of entangled qubits through local operations and classical communication (LOCC). Existing distillation protocols assume the availability of ideal, noiseless, communication channels. In this paper, we study the case in which communication takes place over noisy binary symmetric channels. We propose to implement local processing through parameterized quantum circuits (PQCs) that are optimized to maximize the average fidelity, while accounting for communication errors. The introduced approach, Noise Aware-LOCCNet (NA-LOCCNet), is shown to have significant advantages over existing protocols designed for noiseless communications.

  The increased adoption of digital assistants makes text-to-speech (TTS) synthesis systems an indispensable feature of modern mobile devices. It is hence desirable to build a system capable of generating highly intelligible speech in the presence of noise. Past studies have investigated style conversion in TTS synthesis, yet degraded synthesized quality often leads to worse intelligibility. To overcome such limitations, we proposed a novel transfer learning approach using Tacotron and WaveRNN based TTS synthesis. The proposed speech system exploits two modification strategies: (a) Lombard speaking style data and (b) Spectral Shaping and Dynamic Range Compression (SSDRC) which has been shown to provide high intelligibility gains by redistributing the signal energy on the time-frequency domain. We refer to this extension as Lombard-SSDRC TTS system. Intelligibility enhancement as quantified by the Intelligibility in Bits (SIIB-Gauss) measure shows that the proposed Lombard-SSDRC TTS system shows significant relative improvement between 110% and 130% in speech-shaped noise (SSN), and 47% to 140% in competing-speaker noise (CSN) against the state-of-the-art TTS approach. Additional subjective evaluation shows that Lombard-SSDRC TTS successfully increases the speech intelligibility with relative improvement of 455% for SSN and 104% for CSN in median keyword correction rate compared to the baseline TTS method.

  The performance of single channel source separation algorithms has improved greatly in recent times with the development and deployment of neural networks. However, many such networks continue to operate on the magnitude spectrogram of a mixture, and produce an estimate of source magnitude spectrograms, to perform source separation. In this paper, we interpret these steps as additional neural network layers and propose an end-to-end source separation network that allows us to estimate the separated speech waveform by operating directly on the raw waveform of the mixture. Furthermore, we also propose the use of masking based end-to-end separation networks that jointly optimize the mask and the latent representations of the mixture waveforms. These networks show a significant improvement in separation performance compared to existing architectures in our experiments. To train these end-to-end models, we investigate the use of composite cost functions that are derived from objective evaluation metrics as measured on waveforms. We present subjective listening test results that demonstrate the improvement attained by using masking based end-to-end networks and also reveal insights into the performance of these cost functions for end-to-end source separation.

Federated learning (FL) has recently emerged as a popular privacy-preserving collaborative learning paradigm. However, it suffers from the non-independent and identically distributed (non-IID) data among clients. In this paper, we propose a novel framework, named Synthetic Data Aided Federated Learning (SDA-FL), to resolve this non-IID challenge by sharing synthetic data. Specifically, each client pretrains a local generative adversarial network (GAN) to generate differentially private synthetic data, which are uploaded to the parameter server (PS) to construct a global shared synthetic dataset. To generate confident pseudo labels for the synthetic dataset, we also propose an iterative pseudo labeling mechanism performed by the PS. A combination of the local private dataset and synthetic dataset with confident pseudo labels leads to nearly identical data distributions among clients, which improves the consistency among local models and benefits the global aggregation. Extensive experiments evidence that the proposed framework outperforms the baseline methods by a large margin in several benchmark datasets under both the supervised and semi-supervised settings.

  In this paper, we study communication efficient distributed algorithms for distributionally robust federated learning via periodic averaging with adaptive sampling. In contrast to standard empirical risk minimization, due to the minimax structure of the underlying optimization problem, a key difficulty arises from the fact that the global parameter that controls the mixture of local losses can only be updated infrequently on the global stage. To compensate for this, we propose a Distributionally Robust Federated Averaging (DRFA) algorithm that employs a novel snapshotting scheme to approximate the accumulation of history gradients of the mixing parameter. We analyze the convergence rate of DRFA in both convex-linear and nonconvex-linear settings. We also generalize the proposed idea to objectives with regularization on the mixture parameter and propose a proximal variant, dubbed as DRFA-Prox, with provable convergence rates. We also analyze an alternative optimization method for regularized cases in strongly-convex-strongly-concave and non-convex (under PL condition)-strongly-concave settings. To the best of our knowledge, this paper is the first to solve distributionally robust federated learning with reduced communication, and to analyze the efficiency of local descent methods on distributed minimax problems. We give corroborating experimental evidence for our theoretical results in federated learning settings.

  Embedding approaches have become one of the most pervasive techniques for multi-label classification. However, the training process of embedding methods usually involves a complex quadratic or semidefinite programming problem, or the model may even involve an NP-hard problem. Thus, such methods are prohibitive on large-scale applications. More importantly, much of the literature has already shown that the binary relevance (BR) method is usually good enough for some applications. Unfortunately, BR runs slowly due to its linear dependence on the size of the input data. The goal of this paper is to provide a simple method, yet with provable guarantees, which can achieve competitive performance without a complex training process. To achieve our goal, we provide a simple stochastic sketch strategy for multi-label classification and present theoretical results from both algorithmic and statistical learning perspectives. Our comprehensive empirical studies corroborate our theoretical findings and demonstrate the superiority of the proposed methods.

  The stable under iterated tessellation (STIT) process is a stochastic process that produces a recursive partition of space with cut directions drawn independently from a distribution over the sphere. The case of random axis-aligned cuts is known as the Mondrian process. Random forests and Laplace kernel approximations built from the Mondrian process have led to efficient online learning methods and Bayesian optimization. In this work, we utilize tools from stochastic geometry to resolve some fundamental questions concerning STIT processes in machine learning. First, we show that a STIT process with cut directions drawn from a discrete distribution can be efficiently simulated by lifting to a higher dimensional axis-aligned Mondrian process. Second, we characterize all possible kernels that stationary STIT processes and their mixtures can approximate. We also give a uniform convergence rate for the approximation error of the STIT kernels to the targeted kernels, generalizing the work of [3] for the Mondrian case. Third, we obtain consistency results for STIT forests in density estimation and regression. Finally, we give a formula for the density estimator arising from an infinite STIT random forest. This allows for precise comparisons between the Mondrian forest, the Mondrian kernel and the Laplace kernel in density estimation. Our paper calls for further developments at the novel intersection of stochastic geometry and machine learning.

  Intelligent agents should be able to learn useful representations by observing changes in their environment. We model such observations as pairs of non-i.i.d. images sharing at least one of the underlying factors of variation. First, we theoretically show that only knowing how many factors have changed, but not which ones, is sufficient to learn disentangled representations. Second, we provide practical algorithms that learn disentangled representations from pairs of images without requiring annotation of groups, individual factors, or the number of factors that have changed. Third, we perform a large-scale empirical study and show that such pairs of observations are sufficient to reliably learn disentangled representations on several benchmark data sets. Finally, we evaluate our learned representations and find that they are simultaneously useful on a diverse suite of tasks, including generalization under covariate shifts, fairness, and abstract reasoning. Overall, our results demonstrate that weak supervision enables learning of useful disentangled representations in realistic scenarios.

  Sub-seasonal climate forecasting (SSF) is the prediction of key climate variables such as temperature and precipitation on the 2-week to 2-month time horizon. Skillful SSF would have substantial societal value in areas such as agricultural productivity, hydrology and water resource management, and emergency planning for extreme events such as droughts and wildfires. Despite its societal importance, SSF has stayed a challenging problem compared to both short-term weather forecasting and long-term seasonal forecasting. Recent studies have shown the potential of machine learning (ML) models to advance SSF. In this paper, for the first time, we perform a fine-grained comparison of a suite of modern ML models with start-of-the-art physics-based dynamical models from the Subseasonal Experiment (SubX) project for SSF in the western contiguous United States. Additionally, we explore mechanisms to enhance the ML models by using forecasts from dynamical models. Empirical results illustrate that, on average, ML models outperform dynamical models while the ML models tend to be conservatives in their forecasts compared to the SubX models. Further, we illustrate that ML models make forecasting errors under extreme weather conditions, e.g., cold waves due to the polar vortex, highlighting the need for separate models for extreme events. Finally, we show that suitably incorporating dynamical model forecasts as inputs to ML models can substantially improve the forecasting performance of the ML models. The SSF dataset constructed for the work, dynamical model predictions, and code for the ML models are released along with the paper for the benefit of the broader machine learning community.

  Experience replay \citep{lin1993reinforcement, mnih2015human} is a widely used technique to achieve efficient use of data and improved performance in RL algorithms. In experience replay, past transitions are stored in a memory buffer and re-used during learning. Various suggestions for sampling schemes from the replay buffer have been suggested in previous works, attempting to optimally choose those experiences which will most contribute to the convergence to an optimal policy. Here, we give some conditions on the replay sampling scheme that will ensure convergence, focusing on the well-known Q-learning algorithm in the tabular setting. After establishing sufficient conditions for convergence, we turn to suggest a slightly different usage for experience replay - replaying memories in a biased manner as a means to change the properties of the resulting policy. We initiate a rigorous study of experience replay as a tool to control and modify the properties of the resulting policy. In particular, we show that using an appropriate biased sampling scheme can allow us to achieve a \emph{safe} policy. We believe that using experience replay as a biasing mechanism that allows controlling the resulting policy in desirable ways is an idea with promising potential for many applications.

  Single-image generative adversarial networks learn from the internal distribution of a single training example to generate variations of it, removing the need of a large dataset. In this paper we introduce SpecSinGAN, an unconditional generative architecture that takes a single one-shot sound effect (e.g., a footstep; a character jump) and produces novel variations of it, as if they were different takes from the same recording session. We explore the use of multi-channel spectrograms to train the model on the various layers that comprise a single sound effect. A listening study comparing our model to real recordings and to digital signal processing procedural audio models in terms of sound plausibility and variation revealed that SpecSinGAN is more plausible and varied than the procedural audio models considered, when using multi-channel spectrograms. Sound examples can be found at the project website: https://www.adrianbarahonarios.com/specsingan/

  Speech recognition is one of the key topics in artificial intelligence, as it is one of the most common forms of communication in humans. Researchers have developed many speech-controlled prosthetic hands in the past decades, utilizing conventional speech recognition systems that use a combination of neural network and hidden Markov model. Recent advancements in general-purpose graphics processing units (GPGPUs) enable intelligent devices to run deep neural networks in real-time. Thus, state-of-the-art speech recognition systems have rapidly shifted from the paradigm of composite subsystems optimization to the paradigm of end-to-end optimization. However, a low-power embedded GPGPU cannot run these speech recognition systems in real-time. In this paper, we show the development of deep convolutional neural networks (CNN) for speech control of prosthetic hands that run in real-time on a NVIDIA Jetson TX2 developer kit. First, the device captures and converts speech into 2D features (like spectrogram). The CNN receives the 2D features and classifies the hand gestures. Finally, the hand gesture classes are sent to the prosthetic hand motion control system. The whole system is written in Python with Keras, a deep learning library that has a TensorFlow backend. Our experiments on the CNN demonstrate the 91% accuracy and 2ms running time of hand gestures (text output) from speech commands, which can be used to control the prosthetic hands in real-time.

  Despite their numerous successes, there are many scenarios where adversarial risk metrics do not provide an appropriate measure of robustness. For example, test-time perturbations may occur in a probabilistic manner rather than being generated by an explicit adversary, while the poor train--test generalization of adversarial metrics can limit their usage to simple problems. Motivated by this, we develop a probabilistic robust risk framework, the statistically robust risk (SRR), which considers pointwise corruption distributions, as opposed to worst-case adversaries. The SRR provides a distinct and complementary measure of robust performance, compared to natural and adversarial risk. We show that the SRR admits estimation and training schemes which are as simple and efficient as for the natural risk: these simply require noising the inputs, but with a principled derivation for exactly how and why this should be done. Furthermore, we demonstrate both theoretically and experimentally that it can provide superior generalization performance compared with adversarial risks, enabling application to high-dimensional datasets.

  We consider the existence of fixed points of nonnegative neural networks, i.e., neural networks that take as an input nonnegative vectors and process them using nonnegative parameters. We first show that nonnegative neural networks can be recognized as monotonic and (weakly) scalable functions within the framework of nonlinear Perron-Frobenius theory. This fact enables us to provide conditions for the existence of fixed points of nonnegative neural networks, and these conditions are weaker than those obtained recently using arguments in convex analysis. Furthermore, we prove that the shape of the fixed point set of nonnegative neural networks is often an interval, which degenerates to a point for the case of scalable networks. The results of this paper contribute to the understanding of the behavior of autoencoders, because the fixed point set of an autoencoder is precisely the set of points that can be perfectly reconstructed. Moreover, they provide insight into neural networks designed using the loop-unrolling technique, which can be seen as a fixed point searching algorithm. The chief theoretical results of this paper are verified in numerical simulations, where we consider an autoencoder that first compresses angular power spectra in massive MIMO systems, and, second, reconstruct the input spectra from the compressed signals.

  Neural autoregressive models are explicit density estimators that achieve state-of-the-art likelihoods for generative modeling. The D-dimensional data distribution is factorized into an autoregressive product of one-dimensional conditional distributions according to the chain rule. Data completion is a more involved task than data generation: the model must infer missing variables for any partially observed input vector. Previous work introduced an order-agnostic training procedure for data completion with autoregressive models. Missing variables in any partially observed input vector can be imputed efficiently by choosing an ordering where observed dimensions precede unobserved ones and by computing the autoregressive product in this order. In this paper, we provide evidence that the order-agnostic (OA) training procedure is suboptimal for data completion. We propose an alternative procedure (OA++) that reaches better performance in fewer computations. It can handle all data completion queries while training fewer one-dimensional conditional distributions than the OA procedure. In addition, these one-dimensional conditional distributions are trained proportionally to their expected usage at inference time, reducing overfitting. Finally, our OA++ procedure can exploit prior knowledge about the distribution of inference completion queries, as opposed to OA. We support these claims with quantitative experiments on standard datasets used to evaluate autoregressive generative models.

  The Pachinko Allocation Machine (PAM) is a deep topic model that allows representing rich correlation structures among topics by a directed acyclic graph over topics. Because of the flexibility of the model, however, approximate inference is very difficult. Perhaps for this reason, only a small number of potential PAM architectures have been explored in the literature. In this paper we present an efficient and flexible amortized variational inference method for PAM, using a deep inference network to parameterize the approximate posterior distribution in a manner similar to the variational autoencoder. Our inference method produces more coherent topics than state-of-art inference methods for PAM while being an order of magnitude faster, which allows exploration of a wider range of PAM architectures than have previously been studied.

  Feature attribution has been a foundational building block for explaining the input feature importance in supervised learning with Deep Neural Network (DNNs), but face new challenges when applied to deep Reinforcement Learning (RL).We propose a new approach to explaining deep RL actions by defining a class of \emph{action reconstruction} functions that mimic the behavior of a network in deep RL. This approach allows us to answer more complex explainability questions than direct application of DNN attribution methods, which we adapt to \emph{behavior-level attributions} in building our action reconstructions. It also allows us to define \emph{agreement}, a metric for quantitatively evaluating the explainability of our methods. Our experiments on a variety of Atari games suggest that perturbation-based attribution methods are significantly more suitable in reconstructing actions to explain the deep RL agent than alternative attribution methods, and show greater \emph{agreement} than existing explainability work utilizing attention. We further show that action reconstruction allows us to demonstrate how a deep agent learns to play Pac-Man game.

  We consider the problem of \emph{fully decentralized} multi-agent reinforcement learning (MARL), where the agents are located at the nodes of a time-varying communication network. Specifically, we assume that the reward functions of the agents might correspond to different tasks, and are only known to the corresponding agent. Moreover, each agent makes individual decisions based on both the information observed locally and the messages received from its neighbors over the network. Within this setting, the collective goal of the agents is to maximize the globally averaged return over the network through exchanging information with their neighbors. To this end, we propose two decentralized actor-critic algorithms with function approximation, which are applicable to large-scale MARL problems where both the number of states and the number of agents are massively large. Under the decentralized structure, the actor step is performed individually by each agent with no need to infer the policies of others. For the critic step, we propose a consensus update via communication over the network. Our algorithms are fully incremental and can be implemented in an online fashion. Convergence analyses of the algorithms are provided when the value functions are approximated within the class of linear functions. Extensive simulation results with both linear and nonlinear function approximations are presented to validate the proposed algorithms. Our work appears to be the first study of fully decentralized MARL algorithms for networked agents with function approximation, with provable convergence guarantees.

  Modern applications of survival analysis increasingly involve time-dependent covariates. In healthcare settings, such covariates provide dynamic patient histories that can be used to assess health risks in realtime by tracking the hazard function. Hazard learning is thus particularly useful in healthcare analytics, and the open-source package BoXHED 1.0 provides the first implementation of a gradient boosted hazard estimator that is fully nonparametric. This paper introduces BoXHED 2.0, a quantum leap over BoXHED 1.0 in several ways. Crucially, BoXHED 2.0 can deal with survival data that goes far beyond right-censoring and it also supports recurring events. To our knowledge, this is the only nonparametric machine learning implementation that is able to do so. Another major improvement is that BoXHED 2.0 is orders of magnitude more scalable, due in part to a novel data preprocessing step that sidesteps the need for explicit quadrature when dealing with time-dependent covariates. BoXHED 2.0 supports the use of GPUs and multicore CPUs, and is available from GitHub: www.github.com/BoXHED.

  Many important multiple-objective decision problems can be cast within the framework of ranking under constraints and solved via a weighted bipartite matching linear program. Some of these optimization problems, such as personalized content recommendations, may need to be solved in real time and thus must comply with strict time requirements to prevent the perception of latency by consumers. Classical linear programming is too computationally inefficient for such settings. We propose a novel approach to scale up ranking under constraints by replacing the weighted bipartite matching optimization with a prediction problem in the algorithm deployment stage. We show empirically that the proposed approximate solution to the ranking problem leads to a major reduction in required computing resources without much sacrifice in constraint compliance and achieved utility, allowing us to solve larger constrained ranking problems real-time, within the required 50 milliseconds, than previously reported.

  Visually predicting the stability of block towers is a popular task in the domain of intuitive physics. While previous work focusses on prediction accuracy, a one-dimensional performance measure, we provide a broader analysis of the learned physical understanding of the final model and how the learning process can be guided. To this end, we introduce neural stethoscopes as a general purpose framework for quantifying the degree of importance of specific factors of influence in deep neural networks as well as for actively promoting and suppressing information as appropriate. In doing so, we unify concepts from multitask learning as well as training with auxiliary and adversarial losses. We apply neural stethoscopes to analyse the state-of-the-art neural network for stability prediction. We show that the baseline model is susceptible to being misled by incorrect visual cues. This leads to a performance breakdown to the level of random guessing when training on scenarios where visual cues are inversely correlated with stability. Using stethoscopes to promote meaningful feature extraction increases performance from 51% to 90% prediction accuracy. Conversely, training on an easy dataset where visual cues are positively correlated with stability, the baseline model learns a bias leading to poor performance on a harder dataset. Using an adversarial stethoscope, the network is successfully de-biased, leading to a performance increase from 66% to 88%.

  Traditional industrial recommenders are usually trained on a single business domain and then serve for this domain. However, in large commercial platforms, it is often the case that the recommenders need to make click-through rate (CTR) predictions for multiple business domains. Different domains have overlapping user groups and items. Thus, there exist commonalities. Since the specific user groups have disparity and the user behaviors may change in various business domains, there also have distinctions. The distinctions result in domain-specific data distributions, making it hard for a single shared model to work well on all domains. To learn an effective and efficient CTR model to handle multiple domains simultaneously, we present Star Topology Adaptive Recommender (STAR). Concretely, STAR has the star topology, which consists of the shared centered parameters and domain-specific parameters. The shared parameters are applied to learn commonalities of all domains, and the domain-specific parameters capture domain distinction for more refined prediction. Given requests from different business domains, STAR can adapt its parameters conditioned on the domain characteristics. The experimental result from production data validates the superiority of the proposed STAR model. Since 2020, STAR has been deployed in the display advertising system of Alibaba, obtaining averaging 8.0% improvement on CTR and 6.0% on RPM (Revenue Per Mille).

  Neural networks are vulnerable to adversarial examples, malicious inputs crafted to fool trained models. Adversarial examples often exhibit black-box transfer, meaning that adversarial examples for one model can fool another model. However, adversarial examples are typically overfit to exploit the particular architecture and feature representation of a source model, resulting in sub-optimal black-box transfer attacks to other target models. We introduce the Intermediate Level Attack (ILA), which attempts to fine-tune an existing adversarial example for greater black-box transferability by increasing its perturbation on a pre-specified layer of the source model, improving upon state-of-the-art methods. We show that we can select a layer of the source model to perturb without any knowledge of the target models while achieving high transferability. Additionally, we provide some explanatory insights regarding our method and the effect of optimizing for adversarial examples using intermediate feature maps. Our code is available at https://github.com/CUVL/Intermediate-Level-Attack.

  Lossy image compression is one of the most commonly used operators for digital images. Most recently proposed deep-learning-based image compression methods leverage the auto-encoder structure, and reach a series of promising results in this field. The images are encoded into low dimensional latent features first, and entropy coded subsequently by exploiting the statistical redundancy. However, the information lost during encoding is unfortunately inevitable, which poses a significant challenge to the decoder to reconstruct the original images. In this work, we propose a novel invertible framework called Invertible Lossy Compression (ILC) to largely mitigate the information loss problem. Specifically, ILC introduces an invertible encoding module to replace the encoder-decoder structure to produce the low dimensional informative latent representation, meanwhile, transform the lost information into an auxiliary latent variable that won't be further coded or stored. The latent representation is quantized and encoded into bit-stream, and the latent variable is forced to follow a specified distribution, i.e. isotropic Gaussian distribution. In this way, recovering the original image is made tractable by easily drawing a surrogate latent variable and applying the inverse pass of the module with the sampled variable and decoded latent features. Experimental results demonstrate that with a new component replacing the auto-encoder in image compression methods, ILC can significantly outperform the baseline method on extensive benchmark datasets by combining with the existing compression algorithms.

  Due to data dependency and model leakage properties, Deep Neural Networks (DNNs) exhibit several security vulnerabilities. Several security attacks exploited them but most of them require the output probability vector. These attacks can be mitigated by concealing the output probability vector. To address this limitation, decision-based attacks have been proposed which can estimate the model but they require several thousand queries to generate a single untargeted attack image. However, in real-time attacks, resources and attack time are very crucial parameters. Therefore, in resource-constrained systems, e.g., autonomous vehicles where an untargeted attack can have a catastrophic effect, these attacks may not work efficiently. To address this limitation, we propose a resource efficient decision-based methodology which generates the imperceptible attack, i.e., the RED-Attack, for a given black-box model. The proposed methodology follows two main steps to generate the imperceptible attack, i.e., classification boundary estimation and adversarial noise optimization. Firstly, we propose a half-interval search-based algorithm for estimating a sample on the classification boundary using a target image and a randomly selected image from another class. Secondly, we propose an optimization algorithm which first, introduces a small perturbation in some randomly selected pixels of the estimated sample. Then to ensure imperceptibility, it optimizes the distance between the perturbed and target samples. For illustration, we evaluate it for CFAR-10 and German Traffic Sign Recognition (GTSR) using state-of-the-art networks.

  This paper presents a novel model-free reinforcement learning (RL) framework to design feedback control policies for 3D bipedal walking. Existing RL algorithms are often trained in an end-to-end manner or rely on prior knowledge of some reference joint trajectories. Different from these studies, we propose a novel policy structure that appropriately incorporates physical insights gained from the hybrid nature of the walking dynamics and the well-established hybrid zero dynamics approach for 3D bipedal walking. As a result, the overall RL framework has several key advantages, including lightweight network structure, short training time, and less dependence on prior knowledge. We demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method on Cassie, a challenging 3D bipedal robot. The proposed solution produces stable limit walking cycles that can track various walking speed in different directions. Surprisingly, without specifically trained with disturbances to achieve robustness, it also performs robustly against various adversarial forces applied to the torso towards both the forward and the backward directions.

  MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are endogenous small non-coding RNAs that play an important role in post-transcriptional gene regulation. However, the experimental determination of miRNA sequence and structure is both expensive and time-consuming. Therefore, computational and machine learning-based approaches have been adopted to predict novel microRNAs. With the involvement of data science and machine learning in biology, multiple research studies have been conducted to find microRNAs with different computational methods and different miRNA features. Multiple approaches are discussed in detail considering the learning algorithm/s used, features considered, dataset/s used and the criteria used in evaluations. This systematic review focuses on the machine learning methods developed for miRNA identification in plants. This will help researchers to gain a detailed idea about past studies and identify novel paths that solve drawbacks occurred in past studies. Our findings highlight the need for plant-specific computational methods for miRNA identification.

  Graph neural networks (GNNs) have received much attention recently because of their excellent performance on graph-based tasks. However, existing research on GNNs focuses on designing more effective models without considering much about the quality of the input data. In this paper, we propose self-enhanced GNN (SEG), which improves the quality of the input data using the outputs of existing GNN models for better performance on semi-supervised node classification. As graph data consist of both topology and node labels, we improve input data quality from both perspectives. For topology, we observe that higher classification accuracy can be achieved when the ratio of inter-class edges (connecting nodes from different classes) is low and propose topology update to remove inter-class edges and add intra-class edges. For node labels, we propose training node augmentation, which enlarges the training set using the labels predicted by existing GNN models. SEG is a general framework that can be easily combined with existing GNN models. Experimental results validate that SEG consistently improves the performance of well-known GNN models such as GCN, GAT and SGC across different datasets.

  In online recommendation, customers arrive in a sequential and stochastic manner from an underlying distribution and the online decision model recommends a chosen item for each arriving individual based on some strategy. We study how to recommend an item at each step to maximize the expected reward while achieving user-side fairness for customers, i.e., customers who share similar profiles will receive a similar reward regardless of their sensitive attributes and items being recommended. By incorporating causal inference into bandits and adopting soft intervention to model the arm selection strategy, we first propose the d-separation based UCB algorithm (D-UCB) to explore the utilization of the d-separation set in reducing the amount of exploration needed to achieve low cumulative regret. Based on that, we then propose the fair causal bandit (F-UCB) for achieving the counterfactual individual fairness. Both theoretical analysis and empirical evaluation demonstrate effectiveness of our algorithms.

  The R package abn is designed to fit additive Bayesian models to observational datasets. It contains routines to score Bayesian networks based on Bayesian or information theoretic formulations of generalized linear models. It is equipped with exact search and greedy search algorithms to select the best network. It supports a possible blend of continuous, discrete and count data and input of prior knowledge at a structural level. The Bayesian implementation supports random effects to control for one-layer clustering. In this paper, we give an overview of the methodology and illustrate the package's functionalities using a veterinary dataset about respiratory diseases in commercial swine production.

  Present incremental learning methods are limited in the ability to achieve reliable credit assignment over a large number time steps (or events). However, this situation is typical for cases where the dynamical system to be controlled requires relatively frequent control updates in order to maintain stability or robustness yet has some action-consequences which must be established over relatively long periods of time. To address this problem, the learning capabilities of a control architecture comprised of two Backpropagated Adaptive Critics (BACs) in a two-level hierarchy with continuous actions are explored. The high-level BAC updates less frequently than the low-level BAC and controls the latter to some degree. The response of the low-level to high-level signals can either be determined a priori or it can emerge during learning. A general approach called Response Induction Learning is introduced to address the latter case.

  Graph modeling allows numerous security problems to be tackled in a general way, however, little work has been done to understand their ability to withstand adversarial attacks. We design and evaluate two novel graph attacks against a state-of-the-art network-level, graph-based detection system. Our work highlights areas in adversarial machine learning that have not yet been addressed, specifically: graph-based clustering techniques, and a global feature space where realistic attackers without perfect knowledge must be accounted for (by the defenders) in order to be practical. Even though less informed attackers can evade graph clustering with low cost, we show that some practical defenses are possible.

  Deep learning is gaining importance in many applications. However, Neural Networks face several security and privacy threats. This is particularly significant in the scenario where Cloud infrastructures deploy a service with Neural Network model at the back end. Here, an adversary can extract the Neural Network parameters, infer the regularization hyperparameter, identify if a data point was part of the training data, and generate effective transferable adversarial examples to evade classifiers. This paper shows how a Neural Network model is susceptible to timing side channel attack. In this paper, a black box Neural Network extraction attack is proposed by exploiting the timing side channels to infer the depth of the network. Although, constructing an equivalent architecture is a complex search problem, it is shown how Reinforcement Learning with knowledge distillation can effectively reduce the search space to infer a target model. The proposed approach has been tested with VGG architectures on CIFAR10 data set. It is observed that it is possible to reconstruct substitute models with test accuracy close to the target models and the proposed approach is scalable and independent of type of Neural Network architectures.

  Block-based visual programming environments play a critical role in introducing computing concepts to K-12 students. One of the key pedagogical challenges in these environments is in designing new practice tasks for a student that match a desired level of difficulty and exercise specific programming concepts. In this paper, we formalize the problem of synthesizing visual programming tasks. In particular, given a reference visual task $\rm T^{in}$ and its solution code $\rm C^{in}$, we propose a novel methodology to automatically generate a set $\{(\rm T^{out}, \rm C^{out})\}$ of new tasks along with solution codes such that tasks $\rm T^{in}$ and $\rm T^{out}$ are conceptually similar but visually dissimilar. Our methodology is based on the realization that the mapping from the space of visual tasks to their solution codes is highly discontinuous; hence, directly mutating reference task $\rm T^{in}$ to generate new tasks is futile. Our task synthesis algorithm operates by first mutating code $\rm C^{in}$ to obtain a set of codes $\{\rm C^{out}\}$. Then, the algorithm performs symbolic execution over a code $\rm C^{out}$ to obtain a visual task $\rm T^{out}$; this step uses the Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS) procedure to guide the search in the symbolic tree. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our algorithm through an extensive empirical evaluation and user study on reference tasks taken from the \emph{Hour of Code: Classic Maze} challenge by \emph{Code.org} and the \emph{Intro to Programming with Karel} course by \emph{CodeHS.com}.

  We show a simple reduction which demonstrates the cryptographic hardness of learning a single periodic neuron over isotropic Gaussian distributions in the presence of noise. More precisely, our reduction shows that any polynomial-time algorithm (not necessarily gradient-based) for learning such functions under small noise implies a polynomial-time quantum algorithm for solving worst-case lattice problems, whose hardness form the foundation of lattice-based cryptography. Our core hard family of functions, which are well-approximated by one-layer neural networks, take the general form of a univariate periodic function applied to an affine projection of the data. These functions have appeared in previous seminal works which demonstrate their hardness against gradient-based (Shamir'18), and Statistical Query (SQ) algorithms (Song et al.'17). We show that if (polynomially) small noise is added to the labels, the intractability of learning these functions applies to all polynomial-time algorithms, beyond gradient-based and SQ algorithms, under the aforementioned cryptographic assumptions. Moreover, we demonstrate the necessity of noise in the hardness result by designing a polynomial-time algorithm for learning certain families of such functions under exponentially small adversarial noise. Our proposed algorithm is not a gradient-based or an SQ algorithm, but is rather based on the celebrated Lenstra-Lenstra-Lov\'asz (LLL) lattice basis reduction algorithm. Furthermore, in the absence of noise, this algorithm can be directly applied to solve CLWE detection (Bruna et al.'21) and phase retrieval with an optimal sample complexity of $d+1$ samples. In the former case, this improves upon the quadratic-in-$d$ sample complexity required in (Bruna et al.'21).

  Recent advances in pre-training huge models on large amounts of text through self supervision have obtained state-of-the-art results in various natural language processing tasks. However, these huge and expensive models are difficult to use in practise for downstream tasks. Some recent efforts use knowledge distillation to compress these models. However, we see a gap between the performance of the smaller student models as compared to that of the large teacher. In this work, we leverage large amounts of in-domain unlabeled transfer data in addition to a limited amount of labeled training instances to bridge this gap for distilling BERT. We show that simple RNN based student models even with hard distillation can perform at par with the huge teachers given the transfer set. The student performance can be further improved with soft distillation and leveraging teacher intermediate representations. We show that our student models can compress the huge teacher by up to 26x while still matching or even marginally exceeding the teacher performance in low-resource settings with small amount of labeled data. Additionally, for the multilingual extension of this work with XtremeDistil (Mukherjee and Hassan Awadallah, 2020), we demonstrate massive distillation of multilingual BERT-like teacher models by upto 35x in terms of parameter compression and 51x in terms of latency speedup for batch inference while retaining 95% of its F1-score for NER over 41 languages.

  Deep reinforcement learning (DRL) is one of the promising approaches for introducing robots into complicated environments. The recent remarkable progress of DRL stands on regularization of policy, which allows the policy to improve stably and efficiently. A popular method, so-called proximal policy optimization (PPO), and its variants constrain density ratio of the latest and baseline policies when the density ratio exceeds a given threshold. This threshold can be designed relatively intuitively, and in fact its recommended value range has been suggested. However, the density ratio is asymmetric for its center, and the possible error scale from its center, which should be close to the threshold, would depend on how the baseline policy is given. In order to maximize the values of regularization of policy, this paper proposes a new PPO derived using relative Pearson (RPE) divergence, therefore so-called PPO-RPE, to design the threshold adaptively. In PPO-RPE, the relative density ratio, which can be formed with symmetry, replaces the raw density ratio. Thanks to this symmetry, its error scale from center can easily be estimated, hence, the threshold can be adapted for the estimated error scale. From three simple benchmark simulations, the importance of algorithm-dependent threshold design is revealed. By simulating additional four locomotion tasks, it is verified that the proposed method statistically contributes to task accomplishment by appropriately restricting the policy updates.

  Heavy ball momentum is a popular acceleration idea in stochastic optimization. There have been several attempts to understand its perceived benefits, but the complete picture is still unclear. Specifically, the error expression in the presence of noise has two separate terms: the bias and the variance, but most existing works only focus on bias and show that momentum accelerates its decay. Such analyses overlook the interplay between bias and variance and, therefore, miss important implications. In this work, we analyze a sample complexity bound of stochastic approximation algorithms with heavy-ball momentum that accounts for both bias and variance. We find that for the same step size, which is small enough, the iterates with momentum have improved sample complexity compared to the ones without. However, by using a different step-size sequence, the non-momentum version can nullify this benefit. Subsequently, we show that our sample complexity bounds are indeed tight for a small enough neighborhood around the solution and large enough noise variance. Our analysis also sheds some light on the finite-time behavior of these algorithms. This explains the perceived benefit in the initial phase of momentum-based schemes.

  Transformer architectures have proven to learn useful representations for protein classification and generation tasks. However, these representations present challenges in interpretability. In this work, we demonstrate a set of methods for analyzing protein Transformer models through the lens of attention. We show that attention: (1) captures the folding structure of proteins, connecting amino acids that are far apart in the underlying sequence, but spatially close in the three-dimensional structure, (2) targets binding sites, a key functional component of proteins, and (3) focuses on progressively more complex biophysical properties with increasing layer depth. We find this behavior to be consistent across three Transformer architectures (BERT, ALBERT, XLNet) and two distinct protein datasets. We also present a three-dimensional visualization of the interaction between attention and protein structure. Code for visualization and analysis is available at https://github.com/salesforce/provis.

  In this proof-of-concept work, we evaluate the performance of multiple machine-learning methods as statistical emulators for use in the analysis of agent-based models (ABMs). Analysing ABM outputs can be challenging, as the relationships between input parameters can be non-linear or even chaotic even in relatively simple models, and each model run can require significant CPU time. Statistical emulation, in which a statistical model of the ABM is constructed to facilitate detailed model analyses, has been proposed as an alternative to computationally costly Monte Carlo methods. Here we compare multiple machine-learning methods for ABM emulation in order to determine the approaches best suited to emulating the complex behaviour of ABMs. Our results suggest that, in most scenarios, artificial neural networks (ANNs) and gradient-boosted trees outperform Gaussian process emulators, currently the most commonly used method for the emulation of complex computational models. ANNs produced the most accurate model replications in scenarios with high numbers of model runs, although training times were longer than the other methods. We propose that agent-based modelling would benefit from using machine-learning methods for emulation, as this can facilitate more robust sensitivity analyses for the models while also reducing CPU time consumption when calibrating and analysing the simulation.

  In the high-dimensional regression model a response variable is linearly related to $p$ covariates, but the sample size $n$ is smaller than $p$. We assume that only a small subset of covariates is `active' (i.e., the corresponding coefficients are non-zero), and consider the model-selection problem of identifying the active covariates. A popular approach is to estimate the regression coefficients through the Lasso ($\ell_1$-regularized least squares). This is known to correctly identify the active set only if the irrelevant covariates are roughly orthogonal to the relevant ones, as quantified through the so called `irrepresentability' condition. In this paper we study the `Gauss-Lasso' selector, a simple two-stage method that first solves the Lasso, and then performs ordinary least squares restricted to the Lasso active set. We formulate `generalized irrepresentability condition' (GIC), an assumption that is substantially weaker than irrepresentability. We prove that, under GIC, the Gauss-Lasso correctly recovers the active set.

  Sentiment analysis has been widely used to understand our views on social and political agendas or user experiences over a product. It is one of the cores and well-researched areas in NLP. However, for low-resource languages, like Bangla, one of the prominent challenge is the lack of resources. Another important limitation, in the current literature for Bangla, is the absence of comparable results due to the lack of a well-defined train/test split. In this study, we explore several publicly available sentiment labeled datasets and designed classifiers using both classical and deep learning algorithms. In our study, the classical algorithms include SVM and Random Forest, and deep learning algorithms include CNN, FastText, and transformer-based models. We compare these models in terms of model performance and time-resource complexity. Our finding suggests transformer-based models, which have not been explored earlier for Bangla, outperform all other models. Furthermore, we created a weighted list of lexicon content based on the valence score per class. We then analyzed the content for high significance entries per class, in the datasets. For reproducibility, we make publicly available data splits and the ranked lexicon list. The presented results can be used for future studies as a benchmark.

This paper presents VulBERTa, a deep learning approach to detect security vulnerabilities in source code. Our approach pre-trains a RoBERTa model with a custom tokenisation pipeline on real-world code from open-source C/C++ projects. The model learns a deep knowledge representation of the code syntax and semantics, which we leverage to train vulnerability detection classifiers. We evaluate our approach on binary and multi-class vulnerability detection tasks across several datasets (Vuldeepecker, Draper, REVEAL and muVuldeepecker) and benchmarks (CodeXGLUE and D2A). The evaluation results show that VulBERTa achieves state-of-the-art performance and outperforms existing approaches across different datasets, despite its conceptual simplicity, and limited cost in terms of size of training data and number of model parameters.

  Sign Language Translation (SLT) first uses a Sign Language Recognition (SLR) system to extract sign language glosses from videos. Then, a translation system generates spoken language translations from the sign language glosses. This paper focuses on the translation system and introduces the STMC-Transformer which improves on the current state-of-the-art by over 5 and 7 BLEU respectively on gloss-to-text and video-to-text translation of the PHOENIX-Weather 2014T dataset. On the ASLG-PC12 corpus, we report an increase of over 16 BLEU.   We also demonstrate the problem in current methods that rely on gloss supervision. The video-to-text translation of our STMC-Transformer outperforms translation of GT glosses. This contradicts previous claims that GT gloss translation acts as an upper bound for SLT performance and reveals that glosses are an inefficient representation of sign language. For future SLT research, we therefore suggest an end-to-end training of the recognition and translation models, or using a different sign language annotation scheme.

  Motivation The genotype assignment problem consists of predicting, from the genotype of an individual, which of a known set of populations it originated from. The problem arises in a variety of contexts, including wildlife forensics, invasive species detection and biodiversity monitoring. Existing approaches perform well under ideal conditions but are sensitive to a variety of common violations of the assumptions they rely on. Results In this article, we introduce Mycorrhiza, a machine learning approach for the genotype assignment problem. Our algorithm makes use of phylogenetic networks to engineer features that encode the evolutionary relationships among samples. Those features are then used as input to a Random Forests classifier. The classification accuracy was assessed on multiple published empirical SNP, microsatellite or consensus sequence datasets with wide ranges of size, geographical distribution and population structure and on simulated datasets. It compared favorably against widely used assessment tests or mixture analysis methods such as STRUCTURE and Admixture, and against another machine-learning based approach using principal component analysis for dimensionality reduction. Mycorrhiza yields particularly significant gains on datasets with a large average fixation index (FST) or deviation from the Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium. Moreover, the phylogenetic network approach estimates mixture proportions with good accuracy.

  We propose a new family of policy gradient methods for reinforcement learning, which alternate between sampling data through interaction with the environment, and optimizing a "surrogate" objective function using stochastic gradient ascent. Whereas standard policy gradient methods perform one gradient update per data sample, we propose a novel objective function that enables multiple epochs of minibatch updates. The new methods, which we call proximal policy optimization (PPO), have some of the benefits of trust region policy optimization (TRPO), but they are much simpler to implement, more general, and have better sample complexity (empirically). Our experiments test PPO on a collection of benchmark tasks, including simulated robotic locomotion and Atari game playing, and we show that PPO outperforms other online policy gradient methods, and overall strikes a favorable balance between sample complexity, simplicity, and wall-time.

  We aim to automatically generate natural language descriptions about an input structured knowledge base (KB). We build our generation framework based on a pointer network which can copy facts from the input KB, and add two attention mechanisms: (i) slot-aware attention to capture the association between a slot type and its corresponding slot value; and (ii) a new \emph{table position self-attention} to capture the inter-dependencies among related slots. For evaluation, besides standard metrics including BLEU, METEOR, and ROUGE, we propose a KB reconstruction based metric by extracting a KB from the generation output and comparing it with the input KB. We also create a new data set which includes 106,216 pairs of structured KBs and their corresponding natural language descriptions for two distinct entity types. Experiments show that our approach significantly outperforms state-of-the-art methods. The reconstructed KB achieves 68.8% - 72.6% F-score.

  The relationship between the Bayesian approach and the minimum description length approach is established. We sharpen and clarify the general modeling principles MDL and MML, abstracted as the ideal MDL principle and defined from Bayes's rule by means of Kolmogorov complexity. The basic condition under which the ideal principle should be applied is encapsulated as the Fundamental Inequality, which in broad terms states that the principle is valid when the data are random, relative to every contemplated hypothesis and also these hypotheses are random relative to the (universal) prior. Basically, the ideal principle states that the prior probability associated with the hypothesis should be given by the algorithmic universal probability, and the sum of the log universal probability of the model plus the log of the probability of the data given the model should be minimized. If we restrict the model class to the finite sets then application of the ideal principle turns into Kolmogorov's minimal sufficient statistic. In general we show that data compression is almost always the best strategy, both in hypothesis identification and prediction.

  In this paper we present a nonparametric method for extending functional regression methodology to the situation where more than one functional covariate is used to predict a functional response. Borrowing the idea from Kadri et al. (2010a), the method, which support mixed discrete and continuous explanatory variables, is based on estimating a function-valued function in reproducing kernel Hilbert spaces by virtue of positive operator-valued kernels.

  Regularized empirical risk minimization problem with linear predictor appears frequently in machine learning. In this paper, we propose a new stochastic primal-dual method to solve this class of problems. Different from existing methods, our proposed methods only require O(1) operations in each iteration. We also develop a variance-reduction variant of the algorithm that converges linearly. Numerical experiments suggest that our methods are faster than existing ones such as proximal SGD, SVRG and SAGA on high-dimensional problems.

  We introduce the variational graph auto-encoder (VGAE), a framework for unsupervised learning on graph-structured data based on the variational auto-encoder (VAE). This model makes use of latent variables and is capable of learning interpretable latent representations for undirected graphs. We demonstrate this model using a graph convolutional network (GCN) encoder and a simple inner product decoder. Our model achieves competitive results on a link prediction task in citation networks. In contrast to most existing models for unsupervised learning on graph-structured data and link prediction, our model can naturally incorporate node features, which significantly improves predictive performance on a number of benchmark datasets.

  Accurate capacitance extraction is becoming more important for designing integrated circuits under advanced process technology. The pattern matching based full-chip extraction methodology delivers fast computational speed, but suffers from large error, and tedious efforts on building capacitance models of the increasing structure patterns. In this work, we propose an effective method for building convolutional neural network (CNN) based capacitance models (called CNN-Cap) for two-dimensional (2-D) structures in full-chip capacitance extraction. With a novel grid-based data representation, the proposed method is able to model the pattern with a variable number of conductors, so that largely reduce the number of patterns. Based on the ability of ResNet architecture on capturing spatial information and the proposed training skills, the obtained CNN-Cap exhibits much better performance over the multilayer perception neural network based capacitance model while being more versatile. Extensive experiments on a 55nm and a 15nm process technologies have demonstrated that the error of total capacitance produced with CNN-Cap is always within 1.3% and the error of produced coupling capacitance is less than 10% in over 99.5% probability. CNN-Cap runs more than 4000X faster than 2-D field solver on a GPU server, while it consumes negligible memory compared to the look-up table based capacitance model.

  Developing new drugs for target diseases is a time-consuming and expensive task, drug repurposing has become a popular topic in the drug development field. As much health claim data become available, many studies have been conducted on the data. The real-world data is noisy, sparse, and has many confounding factors. In addition, many studies have shown that drugs effects are heterogeneous among the population. Lots of advanced machine learning models about estimating heterogeneous treatment effects (HTE) have emerged in recent years, and have been applied to in econometrics and machine learning communities. These studies acknowledge medicine and drug development as the main application area, but there has been limited translational research from the HTE methodology to drug development. We aim to introduce the HTE methodology to the healthcare area and provide feasibility consideration when translating the methodology with benchmark experiments on healthcare administrative claim data. Also, we want to use benchmark experiments to show how to interpret and evaluate the model when it is applied to healthcare research. By introducing the recent HTE techniques to a broad readership in biomedical informatics communities, we expect to promote the wide adoption of causal inference using machine learning. We also expect to provide the feasibility of HTE for personalized drug effectiveness.

  One of the most challenging problems in computational advertising is the prediction of click-through and conversion rates for bidding in online advertising auctions. An unaddressed problem in previous approaches is the existence of highly non-uniform misprediction costs. While for model evaluation these costs have been taken into account through recently proposed business-aware offline metrics -- such as the Utility metric which measures the impact on advertiser profit -- this is not the case when training the models themselves. In this paper, to bridge the gap, we formally analyze the relationship between optimizing the Utility metric and the log loss, which is considered as one of the state-of-the-art approaches in conversion modeling. Our analysis motivates the idea of weighting the log loss with the business value of the predicted outcome. We present and analyze a new cost weighting scheme and show that significant gains in offline and online performance can be achieved.

  In this work, we present an entity linking model which combines a Transformer architecture with large scale pretraining from Wikipedia links. Our model achieves the state-of-the-art on two commonly used entity linking datasets: 96.7% on CoNLL and 94.9% on TAC-KBP. We present detailed analyses to understand what design choices are important for entity linking, including choices of negative entity candidates, Transformer architecture, and input perturbations. Lastly, we present promising results on more challenging settings such as end-to-end entity linking and entity linking without in-domain training data.

  Human behavior modeling deals with learning and understanding behavior patterns inherent in humans' daily routines. Existing pattern mining techniques either assume human dynamics is strictly periodic, or require the number of modes as input, or do not consider uncertainty in the sensor data. To handle these issues, in this paper, we propose a novel clustering approach for modeling human behavior (named, MTpattern) from time-series data. For mining frequent human behavior patterns effectively, we utilize a three-stage pipeline: (1) represent time series data into a sequence of regularly sampled equal-sized unit time intervals for better analysis, (2) a new distance measure scheme is proposed to cluster similar sequences which can handle temporal variation and uncertainty in the data, and (3) exploit an exemplar-based clustering mechanism and fine-tune its parameters to output minimum number of clusters with given permissible distance constraints and without knowing the number of modes present in the data. Then, the average of all sequences in a cluster is considered as a human behavior pattern. Empirical studies on two real-world datasets and a simulated dataset demonstrate the effectiveness of MTpattern with respect to internal and external measures of clustering.

  Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) can learn effective features, though have been shown to suffer from a performance drop when the distribution of the data changes from training to test data. In this paper we analyze the internal representations of CNNs and observe that the representations of unseen data in each class, spread more (with higher variance) in the embedding space of the CNN compared to representations of the training data. More importantly, this difference is more extreme if the unseen data comes from a shifted distribution. Based on this observation, we objectively evaluate the degree of representation's variance in each class via eigenvalue decomposition on the within-class covariance of the internal representations of CNNs and observe the same behaviour. This can be problematic as larger variances might lead to mis-classification if the sample crosses the decision boundary of its class. We apply nearest neighbor classification on the representations and empirically show that the embeddings with the high variance actually have significantly worse KNN classification performances, although this could not be foreseen from their end-to-end classification results. To tackle this problem, we propose Deep Within-Class Covariance Analysis (DWCCA), a deep neural network layer that significantly reduces the within-class covariance of a DNN's representation, improving performance on unseen test data from a shifted distribution. We empirically evaluate DWCCA on two datasets for Acoustic Scene Classification (DCASE2016 and DCASE2017). We demonstrate that not only does DWCCA significantly improve the network's internal representation, it also increases the end-to-end classification accuracy, especially when the test set exhibits a distribution shift. By adding DWCCA to a VGG network, we achieve around 6 percentage points improvement in the case of a distribution mismatch.

  Identifying sleep problem severity from overnight polysomnography (PSG) recordings plays an important role in diagnosing and treating sleep disorders such as the Obstructive Sleep Apnea (OSA). This analysis traditionally is done by specialists manually through visual inspections, which can be tedious, time-consuming, and is prone to subjective errors. One of the solutions is to use Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) where the convolutional and pooling layers behave as feature extractors and some fully-connected (FCN) layers are used for making final predictions for the OSA severity. In this paper, a CNN architecture with 1D convolutional and FCN layers for classification is presented. The PSG data for this project are from the Cleveland Children's Sleep and Health Study database and classification results confirm the effectiveness of the proposed CNN method. The proposed 1D CNN model achieves excellent classification results without manually preprocesssing PSG signals such as feature extraction and feature reduction.

  The modeling of turbulent flows is critical to scientific and engineering problems ranging from aircraft design to weather forecasting and climate prediction. Over the last sixty years numerous turbulence models have been proposed, largely based on physical insight and engineering intuition. Recent advances in machine learning and data science have incited new efforts to complement these approaches. To date, all such efforts have focused on supervised learning which, despite demonstrated promise, encounters difficulties in generalizing beyond the distributions of the training data. In this work we introduce multi-agent reinforcement learning (MARL) as an automated discovery tool of turbulence models. We demonstrate the potential of this approach on Large Eddy Simulations of homogeneous and isotropic turbulence using as reward the recovery of the statistical properties of Direct Numerical Simulations. Here, the closure model is formulated as a control policy enacted by cooperating agents, which detect critical spatio-temporal patterns in the flow field to estimate the unresolved sub-grid scale (SGS) physics. The present results are obtained with state-of-the-art algorithms based on experience replay and compare favorably with established dynamic SGS modeling approaches. Moreover, we show that the present turbulence models generalize across grid sizes and flow conditions as expressed by the Reynolds numbers.

We introduce an optimal transport-based model for learning a metric tensor from cross-sectional samples of evolving probability measures on a common Riemannian manifold. We neurally parametrize the metric as a spatially-varying matrix field and efficiently optimize our model's objective using backpropagation. Using this learned metric, we can nonlinearly interpolate between probability measures and compute geodesics on the manifold. We show that metrics learned using our method improve the quality of trajectory inference on scRNA and bird migration data at the cost of little additional cross-sectional data.

  We present a method to learn automaton models that are more robust to input modifications. It iteratively aligns sequences to a learned model, modifies the sequences to their aligned versions, and re-learns the model. Automaton learning algorithms are typically very good at modeling the frequent behavior of a software system. Our solution can be used to also learn the behavior present in infrequent sequences, as these will be aligned to the frequent ones represented by the model. We apply our method to the SAGE tool for modeling attacker behavior from intrusion alerts. In experiments, we demonstrate that our algorithm learns models that can handle noise such as added and removed symbols from sequences. Furthermore, it learns more concise models that fit better to the training data.

  Active learning aims to optimize the dataset annotation process when resources are constrained. Most existing methods are designed for balanced datasets. Their practical applicability is limited by the fact that a majority of real-life datasets are actually imbalanced. Here, we introduce a new active learning method which is designed for imbalanced datasets. It favors samples likely to be in minority classes so as to reduce the imbalance of the labeled subset and create a better representation for these classes. We also compare two training schemes for active learning: (1) the one commonly deployed in deep active learning using model fine tuning for each iteration and (2) a scheme which is inspired by transfer learning and exploits generic pre-trained models and train shallow classifiers for each iteration. Evaluation is run with three imbalanced datasets. Results show that the proposed active learning method outperforms competitive baselines. Equally interesting, they also indicate that the transfer learning training scheme outperforms model fine tuning if features are transferable from the generic dataset to the unlabeled one. This last result is surprising and should encourage the community to explore the design of deep active learning methods.

  Privacy and communication efficiency are important challenges in federated training of neural networks, and combining them is still an open problem. In this work, we develop a method that unifies highly compressed communication and differential privacy (DP). We introduce a compression technique based on Relative Entropy Coding (REC) to the federated setting. With a minor modification to REC, we obtain a provably differentially private learning algorithm, DP-REC, and show how to compute its privacy guarantees. Our experiments demonstrate that DP-REC drastically reduces communication costs while providing privacy guarantees comparable to the state-of-the-art.

  All reinforcement learning algorithms must handle the trade-off between exploration and exploitation. Many state-of-the-art deep reinforcement learning methods use noise in the action selection, such as Gaussian noise in policy gradient methods or $\epsilon$-greedy in Q-learning. While these methods are appealing due to their simplicity, they do not explore the state space in a methodical manner. We present an approach that uses a model to derive reward bonuses as a means of intrinsic motivation to improve model-free reinforcement learning. A key insight of our approach is that this dynamics model can be learned in the latent feature space of a value function, representing the dynamics of the agent and the environment. This method is both theoretically grounded and computationally advantageous, permitting the efficient use of Bayesian information-theoretic methods in high-dimensional state spaces. We evaluate our method on several continuous control tasks, focusing on improving exploration.

  Correct performance assessment is crucial for evaluating modern artificial intelligence algorithms in medicine like deep-learning based medical image segmentation models. However, there is no universal metric library in Python for standardized and reproducible evaluation. Thus, we propose our open-source publicly available Python package MISeval: a metric library for Medical Image Segmentation Evaluation. The implemented metrics can be intuitively used and easily integrated into any performance assessment pipeline. The package utilizes modern CI/CD strategies to ensure functionality and stability. MISeval is available from PyPI (miseval) and GitHub: https://github.com/frankkramer-lab/miseval.

  In this paper, we introduce ChemicalX, a PyTorch-based deep learning library designed for providing a range of state of the art models to solve the drug pair scoring task. The primary objective of the library is to make deep drug pair scoring models accessible to machine learning researchers and practitioners in a streamlined framework.The design of ChemicalX reuses existing high level model training utilities, geometric deep learning, and deep chemistry layers from the PyTorch ecosystem. Our system provides neural network layers, custom pair scoring architectures, data loaders, and batch iterators for end users. We showcase these features with example code snippets and case studies to highlight the characteristics of ChemicalX. A range of experiments on real world drug-drug interaction, polypharmacy side effect, and combination synergy prediction tasks demonstrate that the models available in ChemicalX are effective at solving the pair scoring task. Finally, we show that ChemicalX could be used to train and score machine learning models on large drug pair datasets with hundreds of thousands of compounds on commodity hardware.

  We introduce the new "Goldilocks" class of activation functions, which non-linearly deform the input signal only locally when the input signal is in the appropriate range. The small local deformation of the signal enables better understanding of how and why the signal is transformed through the layers. Numerical results on CIFAR-10 and CIFAR-100 data sets show that Goldilocks networks perform better than, or comparably to SELU and RELU, while introducing tractability of data deformation through the layers.

  Many real-world systems can be studied in terms of pattern recognition tasks, so that proper use (and understanding) of machine learning methods in practical applications becomes essential. While a myriad of classification methods have been proposed, there is no consensus on which methods are more suitable for a given dataset. As a consequence, it is important to comprehensively compare methods in many possible scenarios. In this context, we performed a systematic comparison of 7 well-known clustering methods available in the R language. In order to account for the many possible variations of data, we considered artificial datasets with several tunable properties (number of classes, separation between classes, etc). In addition, we also evaluated the sensitivity of the clustering methods with regard to their parameters configuration. The results revealed that, when considering the default configurations of the adopted methods, the spectral approach usually outperformed the other clustering algorithms. We also found that the default configuration of the adopted implementations was not accurate. In these cases, a simple approach based on random selection of parameters values proved to be a good alternative to improve the performance. All in all, the reported approach provides subsidies guiding the choice of clustering algorithms.

  The support vector machines (SVM) algorithm is a popular classification technique in data mining and machine learning. In this paper, we propose a distributed SVM algorithm and demonstrate its use in a number of applications. The algorithm is named high-performance support vector machines (HPSVM). The major contribution of HPSVM is two-fold. First, HPSVM provides a new way to distribute computations to the machines in the cloud without shuffling the data. Second, HPSVM minimizes the inter-machine communications in order to maximize the performance. We apply HPSVM to some real-world classification problems and compare it with the state-of-the-art SVM technique implemented in R on several public data sets. HPSVM achieves similar or better results.

  Most recent progress in natural language understanding (NLU) has been driven, in part, by benchmarks such as GLUE, SuperGLUE, SQuAD, etc. In fact, many NLU models have now matched or exceeded "human-level" performance on many tasks in these benchmarks. Most of these benchmarks, however, give models access to relatively large amounts of labeled data for training. As such, the models are provided far more data than required by humans to achieve strong performance. That has motivated a line of work that focuses on improving few-shot learning performance of NLU models. However, there is a lack of standardized evaluation benchmarks for few-shot NLU resulting in different experimental settings in different papers. To help accelerate this line of work, we introduce CLUES (Constrained Language Understanding Evaluation Standard), a benchmark for evaluating the few-shot learning capabilities of NLU models. We demonstrate that while recent models reach human performance when they have access to large amounts of labeled data, there is a huge gap in performance in the few-shot setting for most tasks. We also demonstrate differences between alternative model families and adaptation techniques in the few shot setting. Finally, we discuss several principles and choices in designing the experimental settings for evaluating the true few-shot learning performance and suggest a unified standardized approach to few-shot learning evaluation. We aim to encourage research on NLU models that can generalize to new tasks with a small number of examples. Code and data for CLUES are available at https://github.com/microsoft/CLUES.

  Heterogeneous information network (HIN) embedding, aiming to map the structure and semantic information in a HIN to distributed representations, has drawn considerable research attention. Graph neural networks for HIN embeddings typically adopt a hierarchical attention (including node-level and meta-path-level attentions) to capture the information from meta-path-based neighbors. However, this complicated attention structure often cannot achieve the function of selecting meta-paths due to severe overfitting. Moreover, when propagating information, these methods do not distinguish direct (one-hop) meta-paths from indirect (multi-hop) ones. But from the perspective of network science, direct relationships are often believed to be more essential, which can only be used to model direct information propagation. To address these limitations, we propose a novel neural network method via implicitly utilizing attention and meta-paths, which can relieve the severe overfitting brought by the current over-parameterized attention mechanisms on HIN. We first use the multi-layer graph convolutional network (GCN) framework, which performs a discriminative aggregation at each layer, along with stacking the information propagation of direct linked meta-paths layer-by-layer, realizing the function of attentions for selecting meta-paths in an indirect way. We then give an effective relaxation and improvement via introducing a new propagation operation which can be separated from aggregation. That is, we first model the whole propagation process with well-defined probabilistic diffusion dynamics, and then introduce a random graph-based constraint which allows it to reduce noise with the increase of layers. Extensive experiments demonstrate the superiority of the new approach over state-of-the-art methods.

  The task of predicting dialog acts (DA) based on conversational dialog is a key component in the development of conversational agents. Accurately predicting DAs requires a precise modeling of both the conversation and the global tag dependencies. We leverage seq2seq approaches widely adopted in Neural Machine Translation (NMT) to improve the modelling of tag sequentiality. Seq2seq models are known to learn complex global dependencies while currently proposed approaches using linear conditional random fields (CRF) only model local tag dependencies. In this work, we introduce a seq2seq model tailored for DA classification using: a hierarchical encoder, a novel guided attention mechanism and beam search applied to both training and inference. Compared to the state of the art our model does not require handcrafted features and is trained end-to-end. Furthermore, the proposed approach achieves an unmatched accuracy score of 85% on SwDA, and state-of-the-art accuracy score of 91.6% on MRDA.

  To help understand various reproducing kernels used in applied sciences, we investigate the inclusion relation of two reproducing kernel Hilbert spaces. Characterizations in terms of feature maps of the corresponding reproducing kernels are established. A full table of inclusion relations among widely-used translation invariant kernels is given. Concrete examples for Hilbert-Schmidt kernels are presented as well. We also discuss the preservation of such a relation under various operations of reproducing kernels. Finally, we briefly discuss the special inclusion with a norm equivalence.

  Malware evolves over time and antivirus must adapt to such evolution. Hence, it is critical to detect those points in time where malware has evolved so that appropriate countermeasures can be undertaken. In this research, we perform a variety of experiments on a significant number of malware families to determine when malware evolution is likely to have occurred. All of the evolution detection techniques that we consider are based on machine learning and can be fully automated -- in particular, no reverse engineering or other labor-intensive manual analysis is required. Specifically, we consider analysis based on hidden Markov models (HMM) and the word embedding techniques HMM2Vec and Word2Vec.

  Federated learning (FL) has attracted increasing attention in recent years. As a privacy-preserving collaborative learning paradigm, it enables a broader range of applications, especially for computer vision and natural language processing tasks. However, to date, there is limited research of federated learning on relational data, namely Knowledge Graph (KG). In this work, we present a modified version of the graph neural network algorithm that performs federated modeling over KGs across different participants. Specifically, to tackle the inherent data heterogeneity issue and inefficiency in algorithm convergence, we propose a novel optimization algorithm, named FedAlign, with 1) optimal transportation (OT) for on-client personalization and 2) weight constraint to speed up the convergence. Extensive experiments have been conducted on several widely used datasets. Empirical results show that our proposed method outperforms the state-of-the-art FL methods, such as FedAVG and FedProx, with better convergence.

  In this paper, we present an end-to-end approach for environmental sound classification based on a 1D Convolution Neural Network (CNN) that learns a representation directly from the audio signal. Several convolutional layers are used to capture the signal's fine time structure and learn diverse filters that are relevant to the classification task. The proposed approach can deal with audio signals of any length as it splits the signal into overlapped frames using a sliding window. Different architectures considering several input sizes are evaluated, including the initialization of the first convolutional layer with a Gammatone filterbank that models the human auditory filter response in the cochlea. The performance of the proposed end-to-end approach in classifying environmental sounds was assessed on the UrbanSound8k dataset and the experimental results have shown that it achieves 89% of mean accuracy. Therefore, the propose approach outperforms most of the state-of-the-art approaches that use handcrafted features or 2D representations as input. Furthermore, the proposed approach has a small number of parameters compared to other architectures found in the literature, which reduces the amount of data required for training.

  Botnet, a group of coordinated bots, is becoming the main platform of malicious Internet activities like DDOS, click fraud, web scraping, spam/rumor distribution, etc. This paper focuses on design and experiment of a new approach for botnet detection from streaming web server logs, motivated by its wide applicability, real-time protection capability, ease of use and better security of sensitive data. Our algorithm is inspired by a Principal Component Analysis (PCA) to capture correlation in data, and we are first to recognize and adapt Lanczos method to improve the time complexity of PCA-based botnet detection from cubic to sub-cubic, which enables us to more accurately and sensitively detect botnets with sliding time windows rather than fixed time windows. We contribute a generalized online correlation matrix update formula, and a new termination condition for Lanczos iteration for our purpose based on error bound and non-decreasing eigenvalues of symmetric matrices. On our dataset of an ecommerce website logs, experiments show the time cost of Lanczos method with different time windows are consistently only 20% to 25% of PCA.

  Attention-based models have demonstrated remarkable success in various natural language understanding tasks. However, efficient execution remains a challenge for these models which are memory-bound due to their massive number of parameters. We present GOBO, a model quantization technique that compresses the vast majority (typically 99.9%) of the 32-bit floating-point parameters of state-of-the-art BERT models and their variants to 3 bits while maintaining their accuracy. Unlike other quantization methods, GOBO does not require fine-tuning nor retraining to compensate for the quantization error. We present two practical hardware applications of GOBO. In the first GOBO reduces memory storage and traffic and as a result inference latency and energy consumption. This GOBO memory compression mechanism is plug-in compatible with many architectures; we demonstrate it with the TPU, Eyeriss, and an architecture using Tensor Cores-like units. Second, we present a co-designed hardware architecture that also reduces computation. Uniquely, the GOBO architecture maintains most of the weights in 3b even during computation, a property that: (1) makes the processing elements area efficient, allowing us to pack more compute power per unit area, (2) replaces most multiply-accumulations with additions, and (3) reduces the off-chip traffic by amplifying on-chip memory capacity.

  This paper introduces a live object recognition system that serves as a blind aid. Visually impaired people heavily rely on their other senses such as touch and auditory signals for understanding the environment around them. The act of knowing what object is in front of the blind person without touching it (by hand or some other tool) is very difficult. In some cases, the physical contact between the person and object can be dangerous, and even lethal.   This project employs a Convolutional Neural Network for recognition of pre-trained objects on the ImageNet dataset. A camera, aligned with the system's predetermined orientation serves as input to the computer system, which has the object recognition Neural Network deployed to carry out real-time object detection. Output from the network can then be parsed to present to the visually impaired person either in the form of audio or Braille text.

  Word embeddings generated by neural network methods such as word2vec (W2V) are well known to exhibit seemingly linear behaviour, e.g. the embeddings of analogy "woman is to queen as man is to king" approximately describe a parallelogram. This property is particularly intriguing since the embeddings are not trained to achieve it. Several explanations have been proposed, but each introduces assumptions that do not hold in practice. We derive a probabilistically grounded definition of paraphrasing that we re-interpret as word transformation, a mathematical description of "$w_x$ is to $w_y$". From these concepts we prove existence of linear relationships between W2V-type embeddings that underlie the analogical phenomenon, identifying explicit error terms.

  The fault diagnosis of rolling bearings is a critical technique to realize predictive maintenance for mechanical condition monitoring. In real industrial systems, the main challenges for the fault diagnosis of rolling bearings pertain to the accuracy and real-time requirements. Most existing methods focus on ensuring the accuracy, and the real-time requirement is often neglected. In this paper, considering both requirements, we propose a novel fast fault diagnosis method for rolling bearings, based on extreme learning machine (ELM) and logistic mapping, named logistic-ELM. First, we identify 14 kinds of time-domain features from the original vibration signals according to mechanical vibration principles and adopt the sequential forward selection (SFS) strategy to select optimal features from them to ensure the basic predictive accuracy and efficiency. Next, we propose the logistic-ELM for fast fault classification, where the biases in ELM are omitted and the random input weights are replaced by the chaotic logistic mapping sequence which involves a higher uncorrelation to obtain more accurate results with fewer hidden neurons. We conduct extensive experiments on the rolling bearing vibration signal dataset of the Case Western Reserve University (CWRU) Bearing Data Centre. The experimental results show that the proposed approach outperforms existing SOTA comparison methods in terms of the predictive accuracy, and the highest accuracy is 100% in seven separate sub data environments. The relevant code is publicly available at https://github.com/TAN-OpenLab/logistic-ELM.

  In coming years residential consumers will face real-time electricity tariffs with energy prices varying day to day, and effective energy saving will require automation - a recommender system, which learns consumer's preferences from her actions. A consumer chooses a scenario of home appliance use to balance her comfort level and the energy bill. We propose a Bayesian learning algorithm to estimate the comfort level function from the history of appliance use. In numeric experiments with datasets generated from a simulation model of a consumer interacting with small home appliances the algorithm outperforms popular regression analysis tools. Our approach can be extended to control an air heating and conditioning system, which is responsible for up to half of a household's energy bill.

  This paper studies the problem of estimating the grahpon model - the underlying generating mechanism of a network. Graphon estimation arises in many applications such as predicting missing links in networks and learning user preferences in recommender systems. The graphon model deals with a random graph of $n$ vertices such that each pair of two vertices $i$ and $j$ are connected independently with probability $\rho \times f(x_i,x_j)$, where $x_i$ is the unknown $d$-dimensional label of vertex $i$, $f$ is an unknown symmetric function, and $\rho$ is a scaling parameter characterizing the graph sparsity. Recent studies have identified the minimax error rate of estimating the graphon from a single realization of the random graph. However, there exists a wide gap between the known error rates of computationally efficient estimation procedures and the minimax optimal error rate.   Here we analyze a spectral method, namely universal singular value thresholding (USVT) algorithm, in the relatively sparse regime with the average vertex degree $n\rho=\Omega(\log n)$. When $f$ belongs to H\"{o}lder or Sobolev space with smoothness index $\alpha$, we show the error rate of USVT is at most $(n\rho)^{ -2 \alpha / (2\alpha+d)}$, approaching the minimax optimal error rate $\log (n\rho)/(n\rho)$ for $d=1$ as $\alpha$ increases. Furthermore, when $f$ is analytic, we show the error rate of USVT is at most $\log^d (n\rho)/(n\rho)$. In the special case of stochastic block model with $k$ blocks, the error rate of USVT is at most $k/(n\rho)$, which is larger than the minimax optimal error rate by at most a multiplicative factor $k/\log k$. This coincides with the computational gap observed for community detection. A key step of our analysis is to derive the eigenvalue decaying rate of the edge probability matrix using piecewise polynomial approximations of the graphon function $f$.

  Traditional minwise hashing (MinHash) requires applying $K$ independent permutations to estimate the Jaccard similarity in massive binary (0/1) data, where $K$ can be (e.g.,) 1024 or even larger, depending on applications. The recent work on C-MinHash (Li and Li, 2021) has shown, with rigorous proofs, that only two permutations are needed. An initial permutation is applied to break whatever structures which might exist in the data, and a second permutation is re-used $K$ times to produce $K$ hashes, via a circulant shifting fashion. (Li and Li, 2021) has proved that, perhaps surprisingly, even though the $K$ hashes are correlated, the estimation variance is strictly smaller than the variance of the traditional MinHash.   It has been demonstrated in (Li and Li, 2021) that the initial permutation in C-MinHash is indeed necessary. For the ease of theoretical analysis, they have used two independent permutations. In this paper, we show that one can actually simply use one permutation. That is, one single permutation is used for both the initial pre-processing step to break the structures in the data and the circulant hashing step to generate $K$ hashes. Although the theoretical analysis becomes very complicated, we are able to explicitly write down the expression for the expectation of the estimator. The new estimator is no longer unbiased but the bias is extremely small and has essentially no impact on the estimation accuracy (mean square errors). An extensive set of experiments are provided to verify our claim for using just one permutation.

  In recent years there have been many successes of using deep representations in reinforcement learning. Still, many of these applications use conventional architectures, such as convolutional networks, LSTMs, or auto-encoders. In this paper, we present a new neural network architecture for model-free reinforcement learning. Our dueling network represents two separate estimators: one for the state value function and one for the state-dependent action advantage function. The main benefit of this factoring is to generalize learning across actions without imposing any change to the underlying reinforcement learning algorithm. Our results show that this architecture leads to better policy evaluation in the presence of many similar-valued actions. Moreover, the dueling architecture enables our RL agent to outperform the state-of-the-art on the Atari 2600 domain.

  An increasing number of decisions are guided by machine learning algorithms. In many settings, from consumer credit to criminal justice, those decisions are made by applying an estimator to data on an individual's observed behavior. But when consequential decisions are encoded in rules, individuals may strategically alter their behavior to achieve desired outcomes. This paper develops a new class of estimator that is stable under manipulation, even when the decision rule is fully transparent. We explicitly model the costs of manipulating different behaviors, and identify decision rules that are stable in equilibrium. Through a large field experiment in Kenya, we show that decision rules estimated with our strategy-robust method outperform those based on standard supervised learning approaches.

  The development of analytical software for big Earth observation data faces several challenges. Designers need to balance between conflicting factors. Solutions that are efficient for specific hardware architectures can not be used in other environments. Packages that work on generic hardware and open standards will not have the same performance as dedicated solutions. Software that assumes that its users are computer programmers are flexible but may be difficult to learn for a wide audience. This paper describes sits, an open-source R package for satellite image time series analysis using machine learning. To allow experts to use satellite imagery to the fullest extent, sits adopts a time-first, space-later approach. It supports the complete cycle of data analysis for land classification. Its API provides a simple but powerful set of functions. The software works in different cloud computing environments. Satellite image time series are input to machine learning classifiers, and the results are post-processed using spatial smoothing. Since machine learning methods need accurate training data, sits includes methods for quality assessment of training samples. The software also provides methods for validation and accuracy measurement. The package thus comprises a production environment for big EO data analysis. We show that this approach produces high accuracy for land use and land cover maps through a case study in the Cerrado biome, one of the world's fast moving agricultural frontiers for the year 2018.

  Motivated by learning problems including max-norm regularized matrix completion and clustering, robust PCA and sparse inverse covariance selection, we propose a novel optimization algorithm for minimizing a convex objective which decomposes into three parts: a smooth part, a simple non-smooth Lipschitz part, and a simple non-smooth non-Lipschitz part. We use a time variant smoothing strategy that allows us to obtain a guarantee that does not depend on knowing in advance the total number of iterations nor a bound on the domain.

  In this paper, we introduce a distributed version of the classical stochastic Multi-Arm Bandit (MAB) problem. Our setting consists of a large number of agents $n$ that collaboratively and simultaneously solve the same instance of $K$ armed MAB to minimize the average cumulative regret over all agents. The agents can communicate and collaborate among each other \emph{only} through a pairwise asynchronous gossip based protocol that exchange a limited number of bits. In our model, agents at each point decide on (i) which arm to play, (ii) whether to, and if so (iii) what and whom to communicate with. Agents in our model are decentralized, namely their actions only depend on their observed history in the past.   We develop a novel algorithm in which agents, whenever they choose, communicate only arm-ids and not samples, with another agent chosen uniformly and independently at random. The per-agent regret scaling achieved by our algorithm is $O \left( \frac{\lceil\frac{K}{n}\rceil+\log(n)}{\Delta}   \log(T) + \frac{\log^3(n) \log \log(n)}{\Delta^2}   \right)$. Furthermore, any agent in our algorithm communicates only a total of $\Theta(\log(T))$ times over a time interval of $T$.   We compare our results to two benchmarks - one where there is no communication among agents and one corresponding to complete interaction. We show both theoretically and empirically, that our algorithm experiences a significant reduction both in per-agent regret when compared to the case when agents do not collaborate and in communication complexity when compared to the full interaction setting which requires $T$ communication attempts by an agent over $T$ arm pulls.

  Accurate estimation of the positions and shapes of microscale objects is crucial for automated imaging-guided manipulation using a non-contact technique such as optical tweezers. Perception methods that use traditional computer vision algorithms tend to fail when the manipulation environments are crowded. In this paper, we present a deep learning model for semantic segmentation of the images representing such environments. Our model successfully performs segmentation with a high mean Intersection Over Union score of 0.91.

  Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) require a relatively large number of labeled nodes and a reliable/uncorrupted graph connectivity structure in order to obtain good performance on the semi-supervised node classification task. The performance of GNNs can degrade significantly as the number of labeled nodes decreases or the graph connectivity structure is corrupted by adversarial attacks or due to noises in data measurement /collection. Therefore, it is important to develop GNN models that are able to achieve good performance when there is limited supervision knowledge -- a few labeled nodes and noisy graph structures. In this paper, we propose a novel Dual GNN learning framework to address this challenge task. The proposed framework has two GNN based node prediction modules. The primary module uses the input graph structure to induce regular node embeddings and predictions with a regular GNN baseline, while the auxiliary module constructs a new graph structure through fine-grained spectral clusterings and learns new node embeddings and predictions. By integrating the two modules in a dual GNN learning framework, we perform joint learning in an end-to-end fashion. This general framework can be applied on many GNN baseline models. The experimental results validate that the proposed dual GNN framework can greatly outperform the GNN baseline methods when the labeled nodes are scarce and the graph connectivity structure is noisy.

  Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) algorithms offer various strategies for sampling; the Hamiltonian Monte Carlo (HMC) family of samplers are MCMC algorithms which often exhibit improved mixing properties. The recently introduced magnetic HMC, a generalization of HMC motivated by the physics of particles influenced by magnetic field forces, has been demonstrated to improve the performance of HMC. In many applications, one wishes to sample from a distribution restricted to a constrained set, often manifested as an embedded manifold (for example, the surface of a sphere). We introduce magnetic manifold HMC, an HMC algorithm on embedded manifolds motivated by the physics of particles constrained to a manifold and moving under magnetic field forces. We discuss the theoretical properties of magnetic Hamiltonian dynamics on manifolds, and introduce a reversible and symplectic integrator for the HMC updates. We demonstrate that magnetic manifold HMC produces favorable sampling behaviors relative to the canonical variant of manifold-constrained HMC.

  Anomaly detection has numerous applications and has been studied vastly. We consider a complementary problem that has a much sparser literature: anomaly description. Interpretation of anomalies is crucial for practitioners for sense-making, troubleshooting, and planning actions. To this end, we present a new approach called x-PACS (for eXplaining Patterns of Anomalies with Characterizing Subspaces), which "reverse-engineers" the known anomalies by identifying (1) the groups (or patterns) that they form, and (2) the characterizing subspace and feature rules that separate each anomalous pattern from normal instances. Explaining anomalies in groups not only saves analyst time and gives insight into various types of anomalies, but also draws attention to potentially critical, repeating anomalies.   In developing x-PACS, we first construct a desiderata for the anomaly description problem. From a descriptive data mining perspective, our method exhibits five desired properties in our desiderata. Namely, it can unearth anomalous patterns (i) of multiple different types, (ii) hidden in arbitrary subspaces of a high dimensional space, (iii) interpretable by the analysts, (iv) different from normal patterns of the data, and finally (v) succinct, providing the shortest data description. Furthermore, x-PACS is highly parallelizable and scales linearly in terms of data size.   No existing work on anomaly description satisfies all of these properties simultaneously. While not our primary goal, the anomalous patterns we find serve as interpretable "signatures" and can be used for detection. We show the effectiveness of x-PACS in explanation as well as detection on real-world datasets as compared to state-of-the-art.

  An important goal in deep learning is to learn versatile, high-level feature representations of input data. However, standard networks' representations seem to possess shortcomings that, as we illustrate, prevent them from fully realizing this goal. In this work, we show that robust optimization can be re-cast as a tool for enforcing priors on the features learned by deep neural networks. It turns out that representations learned by robust models address the aforementioned shortcomings and make significant progress towards learning a high-level encoding of inputs. In particular, these representations are approximately invertible, while allowing for direct visualization and manipulation of salient input features. More broadly, our results indicate adversarial robustness as a promising avenue for improving learned representations. Our code and models for reproducing these results is available at https://git.io/robust-reps .

  This paper studies faithful explanations for Graph Neural Networks (GNNs). First, we provide a new and general method for formally characterizing the faithfulness of explanations for GNNs. It applies to existing explanation methods, including feature attributions and subgraph explanations. Second, our analytical and empirical results demonstrate that feature attribution methods cannot capture the nonlinear effect of edge features, while existing subgraph explanation methods are not faithful. Third, we introduce \emph{k-hop Explanation with a Convolutional Core} (KEC), a new explanation method that provably maximizes faithfulness to the original GNN by leveraging information about the graph structure in its adjacency matrix and its \emph{k-th} power. Lastly, our empirical results over both synthetic and real-world datasets for classification and anomaly detection tasks with GNNs demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach.

  In this work we develop a new algorithm for rating of teams (or players) in one-on-one games by exploiting the observed difference of the game-points (such as goals), also known as a margin of victory (MOV). Our objective is to obtain the Elo-style algorithm whose operation is simple to implement and to understand intuitively. This is done in three steps: first, we define the probabilistic model between the teams' skills and the discretized MOV variable: this generalizes the model underpinning the Elo algorithm, where the MOV variable is discretized into three categories (win/loss/draw). Second, with the formal probabilistic model at hand, the optimization required by the maximum likelihood rule is implemented via stochastic gradient; this yields simple on-line equations for the rating updates which are identical in their general form to those characteristic of the Elo algorithm: the main difference lies in the way the scores and the expected scores are defined. Third, we propose a simple method to estimate the coefficients of the model, and thus define the operation of the algorithm; it is done in a closed form using the historical data so the algorithm is tailored to the sport of interest and the coefficients defining its operation are determined in entirely transparent manner. The alternative, optimization-based strategy to find the coefficients is also presented. We show numerical examples based on the results of the association football of the English Premier League and the American football of the National Football League.

  Machine learning methods exploiting multi-parametric biomarkers, especially based on neuroimaging, have huge potential to improve early diagnosis of dementia and to predict which individuals are at-risk of developing dementia. To benchmark algorithms in the field of machine learning and neuroimaging in dementia and assess their potential for use in clinical practice and clinical trials, seven grand challenges have been organized in the last decade.   The seven grand challenges addressed questions related to screening, clinical status estimation, prediction and monitoring in (pre-clinical) dementia. There was little overlap in clinical questions, tasks and performance metrics. Whereas this aids providing insight on a broad range of questions, it also limits the validation of results across challenges. The validation process itself was mostly comparable between challenges, using similar methods for ensuring objective comparison, uncertainty estimation and statistical testing. In general, winning algorithms performed rigorous data preprocessing and combined a wide range of input features.   Despite high state-of-the-art performances, most of the methods evaluated by the challenges are not clinically used. To increase impact, future challenges could pay more attention to statistical analysis of which factors relate to higher performance, to clinical questions beyond Alzheimer's disease, and to using testing data beyond the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative. Grand challenges would be an ideal venue for assessing the generalizability of algorithm performance to unseen data of other cohorts. Key for increasing impact in this way are larger testing data sizes, which could be reached by sharing algorithms rather than data to exploit data that cannot be shared.

  The success of deep learning can be attributed to various factors such as increase in computational power, large datasets, deep convolutional neural networks, optimizers etc. Particularly, the choice of optimizer affects the generalization, convergence rate, and training stability. Stochastic Gradient Descent (SGD) is a first order iterative optimizer that updates the gradient uniformly for all parameters. This uniform update may not be suitable across the entire training phase. A rudimentary solution for this is to employ a fine-tuned learning rate scheduler which decreases learning rate as a function of iteration. To eliminate the dependency of learning rate schedulers, adaptive gradient optimizers such as AdaGrad, AdaDelta, RMSProp, Adam employ a parameter-wise scaling term for learning rate which is a function of the gradient itself. We propose Tom (Trend over Momentum) optimizer, which is a novel variant of Adam that takes into account of the trend which is observed for the gradients in the loss landscape traversed by the neural network. In the proposed Tom optimizer, an additional smoothing equation is introduced to address the trend observed during the process of optimization. The smoothing parameter introduced for the trend requires no tuning and can be used with default values. Experimental results for classification datasets such as CIFAR-10, CIFAR-100 and CINIC-10 image datasets show that Tom outperforms Adagrad, Adadelta, RMSProp and Adam in terms of both accuracy and has a faster convergence. The source code is publicly made available at https://github.com/AnirudhMaiya/Tom

  Recommender systems in academia are not widely available. This may be in part due to the difficulty and cost of developing and maintaining recommender systems. Many operators of academic products such as digital libraries and reference managers avoid this effort, although a recommender system could provide significant benefits to their users. In this paper, we introduce Mr. DLib's "Recommendations as-a-Service" (RaaS) API that allows operators of academic products to easily integrate a scientific recommender system into their products. Mr. DLib generates recommendations for research articles but in the future, recommendations may include call for papers, grants, etc. Operators of academic products can request recommendations from Mr. DLib and display these recommendations to their users. Mr. DLib can be integrated in just a few hours or days; creating an equivalent recommender system from scratch would require several months for an academic operator. Mr. DLib has been used by GESIS Sowiport and by the reference manager JabRef. Mr. DLib is open source and its goal is to facilitate the application of, and research on, scientific recommender systems. In this paper, we present the motivation for Mr. DLib, the architecture and details about the effectiveness. Mr. DLib has delivered 94m recommendations over a span of two years with an average click-through rate of 0.12%.

  Many distributed machine learning (ML) systems adopt the non-synchronous execution in order to alleviate the network communication bottleneck, resulting in stale parameters that do not reflect the latest updates. Despite much development in large-scale ML, the effects of staleness on learning are inconclusive as it is challenging to directly monitor or control staleness in complex distributed environments. In this work, we study the convergence behaviors of a wide array of ML models and algorithms under delayed updates. Our extensive experiments reveal the rich diversity of the effects of staleness on the convergence of ML algorithms and offer insights into seemingly contradictory reports in the literature. The empirical findings also inspire a new convergence analysis of stochastic gradient descent in non-convex optimization under staleness, matching the best-known convergence rate of O(1/\sqrt{T}).

  Commonly used classification algorithms in machine learning, such as support vector machines, minimize a convex surrogate loss on training examples. In practice, these algorithms are surprisingly robust to errors in the training data. In this work, we identify a set of conditions on the data under which such surrogate loss minimization algorithms provably learn the correct classifier. This allows us to establish, in a unified framework, the robustness of these algorithms under various models on data as well as error. In particular, we show that if the data is linearly classifiable with a slightly non-trivial margin (i.e. a margin at least $C/\sqrt{d}$ for $d$-dimensional unit vectors), and the class-conditional distributions are near isotropic and logconcave, then surrogate loss minimization has negligible error on the uncorrupted data even when a constant fraction of examples are adversarially mislabeled.

  We propose Variational Heteroscedastic Volatility Model (VHVM) -- an end-to-end neural network architecture capable of modelling heteroscedastic behaviour in multivariate financial time series. VHVM leverages recent advances in several areas of deep learning, namely sequential modelling and representation learning, to model complex temporal dynamics between different asset returns. At its core, VHVM consists of a variational autoencoder to capture relationships between assets, and a recurrent neural network to model the time-evolution of these dependencies. The outputs of VHVM are time-varying conditional volatilities in the form of covariance matrices. We demonstrate the effectiveness of VHVM against existing methods such as Generalised AutoRegressive Conditional Heteroscedasticity (GARCH) and Stochastic Volatility (SV) models on a wide range of multivariate foreign currency (FX) datasets.

  We introduce the {\it diffusion $K$-means} clustering method on Riemannian submanifolds, which maximizes the within-cluster connectedness based on the diffusion distance. The diffusion $K$-means constructs a random walk on the similarity graph with vertices as data points randomly sampled on the manifolds and edges as similarities given by a kernel that captures the local geometry of manifolds. The diffusion $K$-means is a multi-scale clustering tool that is suitable for data with non-linear and non-Euclidean geometric features in mixed dimensions. Given the number of clusters, we propose a polynomial-time convex relaxation algorithm via the semidefinite programming (SDP) to solve the diffusion $K$-means. In addition, we also propose a nuclear norm regularized SDP that is adaptive to the number of clusters. In both cases, we show that exact recovery of the SDPs for diffusion $K$-means can be achieved under suitable between-cluster separability and within-cluster connectedness of the submanifolds, which together quantify the hardness of the manifold clustering problem. We further propose the {\it localized diffusion $K$-means} by using the local adaptive bandwidth estimated from the nearest neighbors. We show that exact recovery of the localized diffusion $K$-means is fully adaptive to the local probability density and geometric structures of the underlying submanifolds.

  Crude oil is a major component in most advanced economies of the world. Accurately predicting and understanding the behavior of crude oil prices is important for economists, analysts, forecasters, and traders, to name a few. The price of crude oil has declined in the past decade and is seeing a phase of stability; but will this stability last? This work is an empirical study on how multivariate analysis may be employed to predict crude oil spot prices using neural networks. The concept of using neural networks showed promising potential. A very simple neural network model was able to perform on par with ARIMA models - the state-of-the-art model in time-series forecasting. Advanced neural network models using larger datasets may be used in the future to extend this proof-of-concept to a full scale framework.

  We present a fast, scalable, data-driven approach for solving linear relaxations of 0-1 integer linear programs using a graph neural network. Our solver is based on the Lagrange decomposition based algorithm FastDOG (Abbas et al. (2022)). We make the algorithm differentiable and perform backpropagation through the dual update scheme for end-to-end training of its algorithmic parameters. This allows to preserve the algorithm's theoretical properties including feasibility and guaranteed non-decrease in the lower bound. Since FastDOG can get stuck in suboptimal fixed points, we provide additional freedom to our graph neural network to predict non-parametric update steps for escaping such points while maintaining dual feasibility. For training of the graph neural network we use an unsupervised loss and perform experiments on large-scale real world datasets. We train on smaller problems and test on larger ones showing strong generalization performance with a graph neural network comprising only around 10k parameters. Our solver achieves significantly faster performance and better dual objectives than its non-learned version. In comparison to commercial solvers our learned solver achieves close to optimal objective values of LP relaxations and is faster by up to an order of magnitude on very large problems from structured prediction and on selected combinatorial optimization problems.

  We propose a reinforcement learning agent to solve hard exploration games by learning a range of directed exploratory policies. We construct an episodic memory-based intrinsic reward using k-nearest neighbors over the agent's recent experience to train the directed exploratory policies, thereby encouraging the agent to repeatedly revisit all states in its environment. A self-supervised inverse dynamics model is used to train the embeddings of the nearest neighbour lookup, biasing the novelty signal towards what the agent can control. We employ the framework of Universal Value Function Approximators (UVFA) to simultaneously learn many directed exploration policies with the same neural network, with different trade-offs between exploration and exploitation. By using the same neural network for different degrees of exploration/exploitation, transfer is demonstrated from predominantly exploratory policies yielding effective exploitative policies. The proposed method can be incorporated to run with modern distributed RL agents that collect large amounts of experience from many actors running in parallel on separate environment instances. Our method doubles the performance of the base agent in all hard exploration in the Atari-57 suite while maintaining a very high score across the remaining games, obtaining a median human normalised score of 1344.0%. Notably, the proposed method is the first algorithm to achieve non-zero rewards (with a mean score of 8,400) in the game of Pitfall! without using demonstrations or hand-crafted features.

  Network data are ubiquitous in modern machine learning, with tasks of interest including node classification, node clustering and link prediction. A frequent approach begins by learning an Euclidean embedding of the network, to which algorithms developed for vector-valued data are applied. For large networks, embeddings are learned using stochastic gradient methods where the sub-sampling scheme can be freely chosen. Despite the strong empirical performance of such methods, they are not well understood theoretically. Our work encapsulates representation methods using a subsampling approach, such as node2vec, into a single unifying framework. We prove, under the assumption that the graph is exchangeable, that the distribution of the learned embedding vectors asymptotically decouples. Moreover, we characterize the asymptotic distribution and provided rates of convergence, in terms of the latent parameters, which includes the choice of loss function and the embedding dimension. This provides a theoretical foundation to understand what the embedding vectors represent and how well these methods perform on downstream tasks. Notably, we observe that typically used loss functions may lead to shortcomings, such as a lack of Fisher consistency.

  Accelerated gradient methods play a central role in optimization, achieving optimal rates in many settings. While many generalizations and extensions of Nesterov's original acceleration method have been proposed, it is not yet clear what is the natural scope of the acceleration concept. In this paper, we study accelerated methods from a continuous-time perspective. We show that there is a Lagrangian functional that we call the \emph{Bregman Lagrangian} which generates a large class of accelerated methods in continuous time, including (but not limited to) accelerated gradient descent, its non-Euclidean extension, and accelerated higher-order gradient methods. We show that the continuous-time limit of all of these methods correspond to traveling the same curve in spacetime at different speeds. From this perspective, Nesterov's technique and many of its generalizations can be viewed as a systematic way to go from the continuous-time curves generated by the Bregman Lagrangian to a family of discrete-time accelerated algorithms.

  The Binary Space Partitioning~(BSP)-Tree process is proposed to produce flexible 2-D partition structures which are originally used as a Bayesian nonparametric prior for relational modelling. It can hardly be applied to other learning tasks such as regression trees because extending the BSP-Tree process to a higher dimensional space is nontrivial. This paper is the first attempt to extend the BSP-Tree process to a d-dimensional (d>2) space. We propose to generate a cutting hyperplane, which is assumed to be parallel to d-2 dimensions, to cut each node in the d-dimensional BSP-tree. By designing a subtle strategy to sample two free dimensions from d dimensions, the extended BSP-Tree process can inherit the essential self-consistency property from the original version. Based on the extended BSP-Tree process, an ensemble model, which is named the BSP-Forest, is further developed for regression tasks. Thanks to the retained self-consistency property, we can thus significantly reduce the geometric calculations in the inference stage. Compared to its counterpart, the Mondrian Forest, the BSP-Forest can achieve similar performance with fewer cuts due to its flexibility. The BSP-Forest also outperforms other (Bayesian) regression forests on a number of real-world data sets.

  Recent advancements in Internet of Things (IoTs) have brought about a surge of interest in indoor positioning for the purpose of providing reliable, accurate, and energy-efficient indoor navigation/localization systems. Ultra Wide Band (UWB) technology has been emerged as a potential candidate to satisfy the aforementioned requirements. Although UWB technology can enhance the accuracy of indoor positioning due to the use of a wide-frequency spectrum, there are key challenges ahead for its efficient implementation. On the one hand, achieving high precision in positioning relies on the identification/mitigation Non Line of Sight (NLoS) links, leading to a significant increase in the complexity of the localization framework. On the other hand, UWB beacons have a limited battery life, which is especially problematic in practical circumstances with certain beacons located in strategic positions. To address these challenges, we introduce an efficient node selection framework to enhance the location accuracy without using complex NLoS mitigation methods, while maintaining a balance between the remaining battery life of UWB beacons. Referred to as the Deep Q-Learning Energy-optimized LoS/NLoS (DQLEL) UWB node selection framework, the mobile user is autonomously trained to determine the optimal set of UWB beacons to be localized based on the 2-D Time Difference of Arrival (TDoA) framework. The effectiveness of the proposed DQLEL framework is evaluated in terms of the link condition, the deviation of the remaining battery life of UWB beacons, location error, and cumulative rewards. Based on the simulation results, the proposed DQLEL framework significantly outperformed its counterparts across the aforementioned aspects.

  Ensemble knowledge distillation can extract knowledge from multiple teacher models and encode it into a single student model. Many existing methods learn and distill the student model on labeled data only. However, the teacher models are usually learned on the same labeled data, and their predictions have high correlations with groudtruth labels. Thus, they cannot provide sufficient knowledge complementary to task labels for student teaching. Distilling on unseen unlabeled data has the potential to enhance the knowledge transfer from the teachers to the student. In this paper, we propose a unified and effective ensemble knowledge distillation method that distills a single student model from an ensemble of teacher models on both labeled and unlabeled data. Since different teachers may have diverse prediction correctness on the same sample, on labeled data we weight the predictions of different teachers according to their correctness. In addition, we weight the distillation loss based on the overall prediction correctness of the teacher ensemble to distill high-quality knowledge. On unlabeled data, there is no groundtruth to evaluate prediction correctness. Fortunately, the disagreement among teachers is an indication of sample hardness, and thereby we weight the distillation loss based on teachers' disagreement to emphasize knowledge distillation on important samples. Extensive experiments on four datasets show the effectiveness of our proposed ensemble distillation method.

  This paper presents an infinite variational autoencoder (VAE) whose capacity adapts to suit the input data. This is achieved using a mixture model where the mixing coefficients are modeled by a Dirichlet process, allowing us to integrate over the coefficients when performing inference. Critically, this then allows us to automatically vary the number of autoencoders in the mixture based on the data. Experiments show the flexibility of our method, particularly for semi-supervised learning, where only a small number of training samples are available.

  Estimating the heightmaps of buildings and vegetation in single remotely sensed images is a challenging problem. Effective solutions to this problem can comprise the stepping stone for solving complex and demanding problems that require 3D information of aerial imagery in the remote sensing discipline, which might be expensive or not feasible to require. We propose a task-focused Deep Learning (DL) model that takes advantage of the shadow map of a remotely sensed image to calculate its heightmap. The shadow is computed efficiently and does not add significant computation complexity. The model is trained with aerial images and their Lidar measurements, achieving superior performance on the task. We validate the model with a dataset covering a large area of Manchester, UK, as well as the 2018 IEEE GRSS Data Fusion Contest Lidar dataset. Our work suggests that the proposed DL architecture and the technique of injecting shadows information into the model are valuable for improving the heightmap estimation task for single remotely sensed imagery.

  The repetitive tracking task for time-varying systems (TVSs) with non-repetitive time-varying parameters, which is also called non-repetitive TVSs, is realized in this paper using iterative learning control (ILC). A machine learning (ML) based nominal model update mechanism, which utilizes the linear regression technique to update the nominal model at each ILC trial only using the current trial information, is proposed for non-repetitive TVSs in order to enhance the ILC performance. Given that the ML mechanism forces the model uncertainties to remain within the ILC robust tolerance, an ILC update law is proposed to deal with non-repetitive TVSs. How to tune parameters inside ML and ILC algorithms to achieve the desired aggregate performance is also provided. The robustness and reliability of the proposed method are verified by simulations. Comparison with current state-of-the-art demonstrates its superior control performance in terms of controlling precision. This paper broadens ILC applications from time-invariant systems to non-repetitive TVSs, adopts ML regression technique to estimate non-repetitive time-varying parameters between two ILC trials and proposes a detailed parameter tuning mechanism to achieve desired performance, which are the main contributions.

  Deep convolutional neural networks (DCNNs) have dominated as the best performers in machine learning, but can be challenged by adversarial attacks. In this paper, we defend against adversarial attacks using neural architecture search (NAS) which is based on a comprehensive search of denoising blocks, weight-free operations, Gabor filters and convolutions. The resulting anti-bandit NAS (ABanditNAS) incorporates a new operation evaluation measure and search process based on the lower and upper confidence bounds (LCB and UCB). Unlike the conventional bandit algorithm using UCB for evaluation only, we use UCB to abandon arms for search efficiency and LCB for a fair competition between arms. Extensive experiments demonstrate that ABanditNAS is faster than other NAS methods, while achieving an $8.73\%$ improvement over prior arts on CIFAR-10 under PGD-$7$.

  We aim to improve the performance of regressing hand keypoints and segmenting pixel-level hand masks under new imaging conditions (e.g., outdoors) when we only have labeled images taken under very different conditions (e.g., indoors). In the real world, it is important that the model trained for both tasks works under various imaging conditions. However, their variation covered by existing labeled hand datasets is limited. Thus, it is necessary to adapt the model trained on the labeled images (source) to unlabeled images (target) with unseen imaging conditions. While self-training domain adaptation methods (i.e., learning from the unlabeled target images in a self-supervised manner) have been developed for both tasks, their training may degrade performance when the predictions on the target images are noisy. To avoid this, it is crucial to assign a low importance (confidence) weight to the noisy predictions during self-training. In this paper, we propose to utilize the divergence of two predictions to estimate the confidence of the target image for both tasks. These predictions are given from two separate networks, and their divergence helps identify the noisy predictions. To integrate our proposed confidence estimation into self-training, we propose a teacher-student framework where the two networks (teachers) provide supervision to a network (student) for self-training, and the teachers are learned from the student by knowledge distillation. Our experiments show its superiority over state-of-the-art methods in adaptation settings with different lighting, grasping objects, backgrounds, and camera viewpoints. Our method improves by 4% the multi-task score on HO3D compared to the latest adversarial adaptation method. We also validate our method on Ego4D, egocentric videos with rapid changes in imaging conditions outdoors.

  Regularization has long been utilized to learn sparsity in deep neural network pruning. However, its role is mainly explored in the small penalty strength regime. In this work, we extend its application to a new scenario where the regularization grows large gradually to tackle two central problems of pruning: pruning schedule and weight importance scoring. (1) The former topic is newly brought up in this work, which we find critical to the pruning performance while receives little research attention. Specifically, we propose an L2 regularization variant with rising penalty factors and show it can bring significant accuracy gains compared with its one-shot counterpart, even when the same weights are removed. (2) The growing penalty scheme also brings us an approach to exploit the Hessian information for more accurate pruning without knowing their specific values, thus not bothered by the common Hessian approximation problems. Empirically, the proposed algorithms are easy to implement and scalable to large datasets and networks in both structured and unstructured pruning. Their effectiveness is demonstrated with modern deep neural networks on the CIFAR and ImageNet datasets, achieving competitive results compared to many state-of-the-art algorithms. Our code and trained models are publicly available at https://github.com/mingsuntse/regularization-pruning.

  Electronic health records (EHR) contain large volumes of unstructured text, requiring the application of Information Extraction (IE) technologies to enable clinical analysis. We present the open-source Medical Concept Annotation Toolkit (MedCAT) that provides: a) a novel self-supervised machine learning algorithm for extracting concepts using any concept vocabulary including UMLS/SNOMED-CT; b) a feature-rich annotation interface for customising and training IE models; and c) integrations to the broader CogStack ecosystem for vendor-agnostic health system deployment. We show improved performance in extracting UMLS concepts from open datasets (F1:0.448-0.738 vs 0.429-0.650). Further real-world validation demonstrates SNOMED-CT extraction at 3 large London hospitals with self-supervised training over ~8.8B words from ~17M clinical records and further fine-tuning with ~6K clinician annotated examples. We show strong transferability (F1 > 0.94) between hospitals, datasets, and concept types indicating cross-domain EHR-agnostic utility for accelerated clinical and research use cases.

  First-order methods such as stochastic gradient descent (SGD) are currently the standard algorithm for training deep neural networks. Second-order methods, despite their better convergence rate, are rarely used in practice due to the prohibitive computational cost in calculating the second-order information. In this paper, we propose a novel Gram-Gauss-Newton (GGN) algorithm to train deep neural networks for regression problems with square loss. Our method draws inspiration from the connection between neural network optimization and kernel regression of neural tangent kernel (NTK). Different from typical second-order methods that have heavy computational cost in each iteration, GGN only has minor overhead compared to first-order methods such as SGD. We also give theoretical results to show that for sufficiently wide neural networks, the convergence rate of GGN is \emph{quadratic}. Furthermore, we provide convergence guarantee for mini-batch GGN algorithm, which is, to our knowledge, the first convergence result for the mini-batch version of a second-order method on overparameterized neural networks. Preliminary experiments on regression tasks demonstrate that for training standard networks, our GGN algorithm converges much faster and achieves better performance than SGD.

  Quota-based fairness mechanisms like the so-called Rooney rule or four-fifths rule are used in selection problems such as hiring or college admission to reduce inequalities based on sensitive demographic attributes. These mechanisms are often viewed as introducing a trade-off between selection fairness and utility. In recent work, however, Kleinberg and Raghavan showed that, in the presence of implicit bias in estimating candidates' quality, the Rooney rule can increase the utility of the selection process.   We argue that even in the absence of implicit bias, the estimates of candidates' quality from different groups may differ in another fundamental way, namely, in their variance. We term this phenomenon implicit variance and we ask: can fairness mechanisms be beneficial to the utility of a selection process in the presence of implicit variance (even in the absence of implicit bias)? To answer this question, we propose a simple model in which candidates have a true latent quality that is drawn from a group-independent normal distribution. To make the selection, a decision maker receives an unbiased estimate of the quality of each candidate, with normal noise, but whose variance depends on the candidate's group. We then compare the utility obtained by imposing a fairness mechanism that we term $\gamma$-rule (it includes demographic parity and the four-fifths rule as special cases), to that of a group-oblivious selection algorithm that picks the candidates with the highest estimated quality independently of their group. Our main result shows that the demographic parity mechanism always increases the selection utility, while any $\gamma$-rule weakly increases it. We extend our model to a two-stage selection process where the true quality is observed at the second stage. We discuss multiple extensions of our results, in particular to different distributions of the true latent quality.

  Adversarial training (AT) is one of the most effective strategies for promoting model robustness. However, recent benchmarks show that most of the proposed improvements on AT are less effective than simply early stopping the training procedure. This counter-intuitive fact motivates us to investigate the implementation details of tens of AT methods. Surprisingly, we find that the basic settings (e.g., weight decay, training schedule, etc.) used in these methods are highly inconsistent. In this work, we provide comprehensive evaluations on CIFAR-10, focusing on the effects of mostly overlooked training tricks and hyperparameters for adversarially trained models. Our empirical observations suggest that adversarial robustness is much more sensitive to some basic training settings than we thought. For example, a slightly different value of weight decay can reduce the model robust accuracy by more than 7%, which is probable to override the potential promotion induced by the proposed methods. We conclude a baseline training setting and re-implement previous defenses to achieve new state-of-the-art results. These facts also appeal to more concerns on the overlooked confounders when benchmarking defenses.

  The MineRL competition is designed for the development of reinforcement learning and imitation learning algorithms that can efficiently leverage human demonstrations to drastically reduce the number of environment interactions needed to solve the complex \emph{ObtainDiamond} task with sparse rewards. To address the challenge, in this paper, we present \textbf{SEIHAI}, a \textbf{S}ample-\textbf{e}ff\textbf{i}cient \textbf{H}ierarchical \textbf{AI}, that fully takes advantage of the human demonstrations and the task structure. Specifically, we split the task into several sequentially dependent subtasks, and train a suitable agent for each subtask using reinforcement learning and imitation learning. We further design a scheduler to select different agents for different subtasks automatically. SEIHAI takes the first place in the preliminary and final of the NeurIPS-2020 MineRL competition.

  In cooperative multi-agent reinforcement learning (c-MARL), agents learn to cooperatively take actions as a team to maximize a total team reward. We analyze the robustness of c-MARL to adversaries capable of attacking one of the agents on a team. Through the ability to manipulate this agent's observations, the adversary seeks to decrease the total team reward.   Attacking c-MARL is challenging for three reasons: first, it is difficult to estimate team rewards or how they are impacted by an agent mispredicting; second, models are non-differentiable; and third, the feature space is low-dimensional. Thus, we introduce a novel attack. The attacker first trains a policy network with reinforcement learning to find a wrong action it should encourage the victim agent to take. Then, the adversary uses targeted adversarial examples to force the victim to take this action.   Our results on the StartCraft II multi-agent benchmark demonstrate that c-MARL teams are highly vulnerable to perturbations applied to one of their agent's observations. By attacking a single agent, our attack method has highly negative impact on the overall team reward, reducing it from 20 to 9.4. This results in the team's winning rate to go down from 98.9% to 0%.

  In this draft paper, we introduce a novel architecture for graph networks which is equivariant to the Euclidean group in $n$-dimensions. The model is designed to work with graph networks in their general form and can be shown to include particular variants as special cases. Thanks to its equivariance properties, we expect the proposed model to be more data efficient with respect to classical graph architectures and also intrinsically equipped with a better inductive bias. We defer investigating this matter to future work.

  The size of the deep learning models has greatly increased over the past decade. Such models are difficult to train using a large batch size, because commodity machines do not have enough memory to accommodate both the model and a large data size. The batch size is one of the hyper-parameters used in the training model, and it is dependent on and is limited by the target machine memory capacity and it is dependent on the remaining memory after the model is uploaded. A smaller batch size usually results in performance degradation. This paper proposes a framework called Micro-Batch Streaming (MBS) to address this problem. This method helps deep learning models to train by providing a batch streaming algorithm that splits a batch into the appropriate size for the remaining memory size and streams them sequentially to the target machine. A loss normalization algorithm based on the gradient accumulation is used to maintain the performance. The purpose of our method is to allow deep learning models to train using mathematically determined optimal batch sizes that cannot fit into the memory of a target system.

  Many state-of-the-art adversarial training methods leverage upper bounds of the adversarial loss to provide security guarantees. Yet, these methods require computations at each training step that can not be incorporated in the gradient for backpropagation. We introduce a new, more principled approach to adversarial training based on a closed form solution of an upper bound of the adversarial loss, which can be effectively trained with backpropagation. This bound is facilitated by state-of-the-art tools from robust optimization. We derive two new methods with our approach. The first method (Approximated Robust Upper Bound or aRUB) uses the first order approximation of the network as well as basic tools from linear robust optimization to obtain an approximate upper bound of the adversarial loss that can be easily implemented. The second method (Robust Upper Bound or RUB), computes an exact upper bound of the adversarial loss. Across a variety of tabular and vision data sets we demonstrate the effectiveness of our more principled approach -- RUB is substantially more robust than state-of-the-art methods for larger perturbations, while aRUB matches the performance of state-of-the-art methods for small perturbations. Also, both RUB and aRUB run faster than standard adversarial training (at the expense of an increase in memory). All the code to reproduce the results can be found at https://github.com/kimvc7/Robustness.

  The relationship between Facebook posts and the corresponding reaction feature is an interesting subject to explore and understand. To achieve this end, we test state-of-the-art Sinhala sentiment analysis models against a data set containing a decade worth of Sinhala posts with millions of reactions. For the purpose of establishing benchmarks and with the goal of identifying the best model for Sinhala sentiment analysis, we also test, on the same data set configuration, other deep learning models catered for sentiment analysis. In this study we report that the 3 layer Bidirectional LSTM model achieves an F1 score of 84.58% for Sinhala sentiment analysis, surpassing the current state-of-the-art model; Capsule B, which only manages to get an F1 score of 82.04%. Further, since all the deep learning models show F1 scores above 75% we conclude that it is safe to claim that Facebook reactions are suitable to predict the sentiment of a text.

  A key challenge in scaling up robot learning to many skills and environments is removing the need for human supervision, so that robots can collect their own data and improve their own performance without being limited by the cost of requesting human feedback. Model-based reinforcement learning holds the promise of enabling an agent to learn to predict the effects of its actions, which could provide flexible predictive models for a wide range of tasks and environments, without detailed human supervision. We develop a method for combining deep action-conditioned video prediction models with model-predictive control that uses entirely unlabeled training data. Our approach does not require a calibrated camera, an instrumented training set-up, nor precise sensing and actuation. Our results show that our method enables a real robot to perform nonprehensile manipulation -- pushing objects -- and can handle novel objects not seen during training.

  The promise of compressive sensing (CS) has been offset by two significant challenges. First, real-world data is not exactly sparse in a fixed basis. Second, current high-performance recovery algorithms are slow to converge, which limits CS to either non-real-time applications or scenarios where massive back-end computing is available. In this paper, we attack both of these challenges head-on by developing a new signal recovery framework we call {\em DeepInverse} that learns the inverse transformation from measurement vectors to signals using a {\em deep convolutional network}. When trained on a set of representative images, the network learns both a representation for the signals (addressing challenge one) and an inverse map approximating a greedy or convex recovery algorithm (addressing challenge two). Our experiments indicate that the DeepInverse network closely approximates the solution produced by state-of-the-art CS recovery algorithms yet is hundreds of times faster in run time. The tradeoff for the ultrafast run time is a computationally intensive, off-line training procedure typical to deep networks. However, the training needs to be completed only once, which makes the approach attractive for a host of sparse recovery problems.

  A capsule is a collection of neurons which represents different variants of a pattern in the network. The routing scheme ensures only certain capsules which resemble lower counterparts in the higher layer should be activated. However, the computational complexity becomes a bottleneck for scaling up to larger networks, as lower capsules need to correspond to each and every higher capsule. To resolve this limitation, we approximate the routing process with two branches: a master branch which collects primary information from its direct contact in the lower layer and an aide branch that replenishes master based on pattern variants encoded in other lower capsules. Compared with previous iterative and unsupervised routing scheme, these two branches are communicated in a fast, supervised and one-time pass fashion. The complexity and runtime of the model are therefore decreased by a large margin. Motivated by the routing to make higher capsule have agreement with lower capsule, we extend the mechanism as a compensation for the rapid loss of information in nearby layers. We devise a feedback agreement unit to send back higher capsules as feedback. It could be regarded as an additional regularization to the network. The feedback agreement is achieved by comparing the optimal transport divergence between two distributions (lower and higher capsules). Such an add-on witnesses a unanimous gain in both capsule and vanilla networks. Our proposed EncapNet performs favorably better against previous state-of-the-arts on CIFAR10/100, SVHN and a subset of ImageNet.

  We show how to achieve the notion of "multicalibration" from H\'ebert-Johnson et al. [2018] not just for means, but also for variances and other higher moments. Informally, it means that we can find regression functions which, given a data point, can make point predictions not just for the expectation of its label, but for higher moments of its label distribution as well-and those predictions match the true distribution quantities when averaged not just over the population as a whole, but also when averaged over an enormous number of finely defined subgroups. It yields a principled way to estimate the uncertainty of predictions on many different subgroups-and to diagnose potential sources of unfairness in the predictive power of features across subgroups. As an application, we show that our moment estimates can be used to derive marginal prediction intervals that are simultaneously valid as averaged over all of the (sufficiently large) subgroups for which moment multicalibration has been obtained.

  Detecting and segmenting individual cells from microscopy images is critical to various life science applications. Traditional cell segmentation tools are often ill-suited for applications in brightfield microscopy due to poor contrast and intensity heterogeneity, and only a small subset are applicable to segment cells in a cluster. In this regard, we introduce a novel supervised technique for cell segmentation in a multi-task learning paradigm. A combination of a multi-task loss, based on the region and cell boundary detection, is employed for an improved prediction efficiency of the network. The learning problem is posed in a novel min-max framework which enables adaptive estimation of the hyper-parameters in an automatic fashion. The region and cell boundary predictions are combined via morphological operations and active contour model to segment individual cells.   The proposed methodology is particularly suited to segment touching cells from brightfield microscopy images without manual interventions. Quantitatively, we observe an overall Dice score of 0.93 on the validation set, which is an improvement of over 15.9% on a recent unsupervised method, and outperforms the popular supervised U-net algorithm by at least $5.8\%$ on average.

  The weight matrix (WM) of a neural network (NN) is its program. The programs of many traditional NNs are learned through gradient descent in some error function, then remain fixed. The WM of a self-referential NN, however, can keep rapidly modifying all of itself during runtime. In principle, such NNs can meta-learn to learn, and meta-meta-learn to meta-learn to learn, and so on, in the sense of recursive self-improvement. While NN architectures potentially capable of implementing such behavior have been proposed since the '90s, there have been few if any practical studies. Here we revisit such NNs, building upon recent successes of fast weight programmers and closely related linear Transformers. We propose a scalable self-referential WM (SRWM) that uses outer products and the delta update rule to modify itself. We evaluate our SRWM in supervised few-shot learning and in multi-task reinforcement learning with procedurally generated game environments. Our experiments demonstrate both practical applicability and competitive performance of the proposed SRWM. Our code is public.

  A trained-based Born iterative method (TBIM) is developed for electromagnetic imaging (EMI) applications. The proposed TBIM consists of a nested loop; the outer loop executes TBIM iteration steps, while the inner loop executes a trained iterative shrinkage thresholding algorithm (TISTA). The applied TISTA runs linear Landweber iterations implemented with a trained regularization network designed based on U-net architecture. A normalization process was imposed in TISTA that made TISTA training applicable within the proposed TBIM. The iterative utilization of the regularization network in TISTA is a bottleneck that demands high memory allocation through the training process. Therefore TISTA within each TBIM step was trained separately. The TISTA regularization network in each TBIM step was initialized using the weights from the previous TBIM step. The above approach achieved high-quality image restoration after running few TBIM steps while maintained low memory allocation through the training process. The proposed framework can be extended to Newton or quasi-Newton schemes, where within each Newton iteration, a linear ill-posed problem is optimized that differs from one example to another. The numerical results illustrated in this work show the superiority of the proposed TBIM compared to the conventional sparse-based Born iterative method (SBIM).

  Knowledge graphs (KGs), as structured representations of real world facts, are intelligent databases incorporating human knowledge that can help machine imitate the way of human problem solving. However, due to the nature of rapid iteration as well as incompleteness of data, KGs are usually huge and there are inevitably missing facts in KGs. Link prediction for knowledge graphs is the task aiming to complete missing facts by reasoning based on the existing knowledge. Two main streams of research are widely studied: one learns low-dimensional embeddings for entities and relations that can capture latent patterns, and the other gains good interpretability by mining logical rules. Unfortunately, previous studies rarely pay attention to heterogeneous KGs. In this paper, we propose DegreEmbed, a model that combines embedding-based learning and logic rule mining for inferring on KGs. Specifically, we study the problem of predicting missing links in heterogeneous KGs that involve entities and relations of various types from the perspective of the degrees of nodes. Experimentally, we demonstrate that our DegreEmbed model outperforms the state-of-the-art methods on real world datasets. Meanwhile, the rules mined by our model are of high quality and interpretability.

  Anomaly localization is an essential problem as anomaly detection is. Because a rigorous localization requires a causal model of a target system, practically we often resort to a relaxed problem of anomaly interpretation, for which we are to obtain meaningful attribution of anomaly scores to input features. In this paper, we investigate the use of the Shapley value for anomaly interpretation. We focus on the semi-supervised anomaly detection and newly propose a characteristic function, on which the Shapley value is computed, specifically for anomaly scores. The idea of the proposed method is approximating the absence of some features by minimizing an anomaly score with regard to them. We examine the performance of the proposed method as well as other general approaches to computing the Shapley value in interpreting anomaly scores. We show the results of experiments on multiple datasets and anomaly detection methods, which indicate the usefulness of the Shapley-based anomaly interpretation toward anomaly localization.

  Center-based clustering is a pivotal primitive for unsupervised learning and data analysis. A popular variant is undoubtedly the k-means problem, which, given a set $P$ of points from a metric space and a parameter $k<|P|$, requires to determine a subset $S$ of $k$ centers minimizing the sum of all squared distances of points in $P$ from their closest center. A more general formulation, known as k-means with $z$ outliers, introduced to deal with noisy datasets, features a further parameter $z$ and allows up to $z$ points of $P$ (outliers) to be disregarded when computing the aforementioned sum. We present a distributed coreset-based 3-round approximation algorithm for k-means with $z$ outliers for general metric spaces, using MapReduce as a computational model. Our distributed algorithm requires sublinear local memory per reducer, and yields a solution whose approximation ratio is an additive term $O(\gamma)$ away from the one achievable by the best known sequential (possibly bicriteria) algorithm, where $\gamma$ can be made arbitrarily small. An important feature of our algorithm is that it obliviously adapts to the intrinsic complexity of the dataset, captured by the doubling dimension $D$ of the metric space. To the best of our knowledge, no previous distributed approaches were able to attain similar quality-performance tradeoffs for general metrics.

  Record companies invest billions of dollars in new talent around the globe each year. Gaining insight into what actually makes a hit song would provide tremendous benefits for the music industry. In this research we tackle this question by focussing on the dance hit song classification problem. A database of dance hit songs from 1985 until 2013 is built, including basic musical features, as well as more advanced features that capture a temporal aspect. A number of different classifiers are used to build and test dance hit prediction models. The resulting best model has a good performance when predicting whether a song is a "top 10" dance hit versus a lower listed position.

  For most existing federated learning algorithms, each round consists of minimizing a loss function at each client to learn an optimal model at the client, followed by aggregating these client models at the server. Point estimation of the model parameters at the clients does not take into account the uncertainty in the models estimated at each client. In many situations, however, especially in limited data settings, it is beneficial to take into account the uncertainty in the client models for more accurate and robust predictions. Uncertainty also provides useful information for other important tasks, such as active learning and out-of-distribution (OOD) detection. We present a framework for Bayesian federated learning where each client infers the posterior predictive distribution using its training data and present various ways to aggregate these client-specific predictive distributions at the server. Since communicating and aggregating predictive distributions can be challenging and expensive, our approach is based on distilling each client's predictive distribution into a single deep neural network. This enables us to leverage advances in standard federated learning to Bayesian federated learning as well. Unlike some recent works that have tried to estimate model uncertainty of each client, our work also does not make any restrictive assumptions, such as the form of the client's posterior distribution. We evaluate our approach on classification in federated setting, as well as active learning and OOD detection in federated settings, on which our approach outperforms various existing federated learning baselines.

  For the task of generating complex outputs such as source code, editing existing outputs can be easier than generating complex outputs from scratch. With this motivation, we propose an approach that first retrieves a training example based on the input (e.g., natural language description) and then edits it to the desired output (e.g., code). Our contribution is a computationally efficient method for learning a retrieval model that embeds the input in a task-dependent way without relying on a hand-crafted metric or incurring the expense of jointly training the retriever with the editor. Our retrieve-and-edit framework can be applied on top of any base model. We show that on a new autocomplete task for GitHub Python code and the Hearthstone cards benchmark, retrieve-and-edit significantly boosts the performance of a vanilla sequence-to-sequence model on both tasks.

  Today's conflicts are becoming increasingly complex, fluid and fragmented, often involving a host of national and international actors with multiple and often divergent interests. This development poses significant challenges for conflict mediation, as mediators struggle to make sense of conflict dynamics, such as the range of conflict parties and the evolution of their political positions, the distinction between relevant and less relevant actors in peace making, or the identification of key conflict issues and their interdependence. International peace efforts appear increasingly ill-equipped to successfully address these challenges. While technology is being increasingly used in a range of conflict related fields, such as conflict predicting or information gathering, less attention has been given to how technology can contribute to conflict mediation. This case study is the first to apply state-of-the-art machine learning technologies to data from an ongoing mediation process. Using dialogue transcripts from peace negotiations in Yemen, this study shows how machine-learning tools can effectively support international mediators by managing knowledge and offering additional conflict analysis tools to assess complex information. Apart from illustrating the potential of machine learning tools in conflict mediation, the paper also emphasises the importance of interdisciplinary and participatory research design for the development of context-sensitive and targeted tools and to ensure meaningful and responsible implementation.

  Long-tail and rare event problems become crucial when autonomous driving algorithms are applied in the real world. For the purpose of evaluating systems in challenging settings, we propose a generative framework to create safety-critical scenarios for evaluating specific task algorithms. We first represent the traffic scenarios with a series of autoregressive building blocks and generate diverse scenarios by sampling from the joint distribution of these blocks. We then train the generative model as an agent (or a generator) to investigate the risky distribution parameters for a given driving algorithm being evaluated. We regard the task algorithm as an environment (or a discriminator) that returns a reward to the agent when a risky scenario is generated. Through the experiments conducted on several scenarios in the simulation, we demonstrate that the proposed framework generates safety-critical scenarios more efficiently than grid search or human design methods. Another advantage of this method is its adaptiveness to the routes and parameters.

  In multi-instance (MI) learning, each object (bag) consists of multiple feature vectors (instances), and is most commonly regarded as a set of points in a multidimensional space. A different viewpoint is that the instances are realisations of random vectors with corresponding probability distribution, and that a bag is the distribution, not the realisations. In MI classification, each bag in the training set has a class label, but the instances are unlabelled. By introducing the probability distribution space to bag-level classification problems, dissimilarities between probability distributions (divergences) can be applied. The bag-to-bag Kullback-Leibler information is asymptotically the best classifier, but the typical sparseness of MI training sets is an obstacle. We introduce bag-to-class divergence to MI learning, emphasising the hierarchical nature of the random vectors that makes bags from the same class different. We propose two properties for bag-to-class divergences, and an additional property for sparse training sets.

  In many contemporary applications, large amounts of unlabeled data are readily available while labeled examples are limited. There has been substantial interest in semi-supervised learning (SSL) which aims to leverage unlabeled data to improve estimation or prediction. However, current SSL literature focuses primarily on settings where labeled data is selected randomly from the population of interest. Non-random sampling, while posing additional analytical challenges, is highly applicable to many real world problems. Moreover, no SSL methods currently exist for estimating the prediction performance of a fitted model under non-random sampling. In this paper, we propose a two-step SSL procedure for evaluating a prediction rule derived from a working binary regression model based on the Brier score and overall misclassification rate under stratified sampling. In step I, we impute the missing labels via weighted regression with nonlinear basis functions to account for nonrandom sampling and to improve efficiency. In step II, we augment the initial imputations to ensure the consistency of the resulting estimators regardless of the specification of the prediction model or the imputation model. The final estimator is then obtained with the augmented imputations. We provide asymptotic theory and numerical studies illustrating that our proposals outperform their supervised counterparts in terms of efficiency gain. Our methods are motivated by electronic health records (EHR) research and validated with a real data analysis of an EHR-based study of diabetic neuropathy.

  Deep neural networks have achieved outstanding performance over various tasks, but they have a critical issue: over-confident predictions even for completely unknown samples. Many studies have been proposed to successfully filter out these unknown samples, but they only considered narrow and specific tasks, referred to as misclassification detection, open-set recognition, or out-of-distribution detection. In this work, we argue that these tasks should be treated as fundamentally an identical problem because an ideal model should possess detection capability for all those tasks. Therefore, we introduce the unknown detection task, an integration of previous individual tasks, for a rigorous examination of the detection capability of deep neural networks on a wide spectrum of unknown samples. To this end, unified benchmark datasets on different scales were constructed and the unknown detection capabilities of existing popular methods were subject to comparison. We found that Deep Ensemble consistently outperforms the other approaches in detecting unknowns; however, all methods are only successful for a specific type of unknown. The reproducible code and benchmark datasets are available at https://github.com/daintlab/unknown-detection-benchmarks .

  Stock prediction is a topic undergoing intense study for many years. Finance experts and mathematicians have been working on a way to predict the future stock price so as to decide to buy the stock or sell it to make profit. Stock experts or economists, usually analyze on the previous stock values using technical indicators, sentiment analysis etc to predict the future stock price. In recent years, many researches have extensively used machine learning for predicting the stock behaviour. In this paper we propose data driven deep learning approach to predict the future stock value with the previous price with the feature extraction property of convolutional neural network and to use Neural Arithmetic Logic Units with it.

  The F-measure is a widely used performance measure for multi-label classification, where multiple labels can be active in an instance simultaneously (e.g. in image tagging, multiple tags can be active in any image). In particular, the F-measure explicitly balances recall (fraction of active labels predicted to be active) and precision (fraction of labels predicted to be active that are actually so), both of which are important in evaluating the overall performance of a multi-label classifier. As with most discrete prediction problems, however, directly optimizing the F-measure is computationally hard. In this paper, we explore the question of designing convex surrogate losses that are calibrated for the F-measure -- specifically, that have the property that minimizing the surrogate loss yields (in the limit of sufficient data) a Bayes optimal multi-label classifier for the F-measure. We show that the F-measure for an $s$-label problem, when viewed as a $2^s \times 2^s$ loss matrix, has rank at most $s^2+1$, and apply a result of Ramaswamy et al. (2014) to design a family of convex calibrated surrogates for the F-measure. The resulting surrogate risk minimization algorithms can be viewed as decomposing the multi-label F-measure learning problem into $s^2+1$ binary class probability estimation problems. We also provide a quantitative regret transfer bound for our surrogates, which allows any regret guarantees for the binary problems to be transferred to regret guarantees for the overall F-measure problem, and discuss a connection with the algorithm of Dembczynski et al. (2013). Our experiments confirm our theoretical findings.

  High-resolution diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) is beneficial for probing tissue microstructure in fine neuroanatomical structures, but long scan times and limited signal-to-noise ratio pose significant barriers to acquiring DTI at sub-millimeter resolution. To address this challenge, we propose a deep learning-based super-resolution method entitled "SRDTI" to synthesize high-resolution diffusion-weighted images (DWIs) from low-resolution DWIs. SRDTI employs a deep convolutional neural network (CNN), residual learning and multi-contrast imaging, and generates high-quality results with rich textural details and microstructural information, which are more similar to high-resolution ground truth than those from trilinear and cubic spline interpolation.

  Bayesian hierarchical clustering (BHC) is an agglomerative clustering method, where a probabilistic model is defined and its marginal likelihoods are evaluated to decide which clusters to merge. While BHC provides a few advantages over traditional distance-based agglomerative clustering algorithms, successive evaluation of marginal likelihoods and careful hyperparameter tuning are cumbersome and limit the scalability. In this paper we relax BHC into a non-probabilistic formulation, exploring small-variance asymptotics in conjugate-exponential models. We develop a novel clustering algorithm, referred to as relaxed BHC (RBHC), from the asymptotic limit of the BHC model that exhibits the scalability of distance-based agglomerative clustering algorithms as well as the flexibility of Bayesian nonparametric models. We also investigate the reducibility of the dissimilarity measure emerged from the asymptotic limit of the BHC model, allowing us to use scalable algorithms such as the nearest neighbor chain algorithm. Numerical experiments on both synthetic and real-world datasets demonstrate the validity and high performance of our method.

  Bayesian quadrature optimization (BQO) maximizes the expectation of an expensive black-box integrand taken over a known probability distribution. In this work, we study BQO under distributional uncertainty in which the underlying probability distribution is unknown except for a limited set of its i.i.d. samples. A standard BQO approach maximizes the Monte Carlo estimate of the true expected objective given the fixed sample set. Though Monte Carlo estimate is unbiased, it has high variance given a small set of samples; thus can result in a spurious objective function. We adopt the distributionally robust optimization perspective to this problem by maximizing the expected objective under the most adversarial distribution. In particular, we propose a novel posterior sampling based algorithm, namely distributionally robust BQO (DRBQO) for this purpose. We demonstrate the empirical effectiveness of our proposed framework in synthetic and real-world problems, and characterize its theoretical convergence via Bayesian regret.

  To solve the information explosion problem and enhance user experience in various online applications, recommender systems have been developed to model users preferences. Although numerous efforts have been made toward more personalized recommendations, recommender systems still suffer from several challenges, such as data sparsity and cold start. In recent years, generating recommendations with the knowledge graph as side information has attracted considerable interest. Such an approach can not only alleviate the abovementioned issues for a more accurate recommendation, but also provide explanations for recommended items. In this paper, we conduct a systematical survey of knowledge graph-based recommender systems. We collect recently published papers in this field and summarize them from two perspectives. On the one hand, we investigate the proposed algorithms by focusing on how the papers utilize the knowledge graph for accurate and explainable recommendation. On the other hand, we introduce datasets used in these works. Finally, we propose several potential research directions in this field.

  In this paper, a neural architecture search (NAS) framework is proposed for 3D medical image segmentation, to automatically optimize a neural architecture from a large design space. Our NAS framework searches the structure of each layer including neural connectivities and operation types in both of the encoder and decoder. Since optimizing over a large discrete architecture space is difficult due to high-resolution 3D medical images, a novel stochastic sampling algorithm based on a continuous relaxation is also proposed for scalable gradient based optimization. On the 3D medical image segmentation tasks with a benchmark dataset, an automatically designed architecture by the proposed NAS framework outperforms the human-designed 3D U-Net, and moreover this optimized architecture is well suited to be transferred for different tasks.

  Outlier detection is an important task in data mining and many technologies have been explored in various applications. However, due to the default assumption that outliers are non-concentrated, unsupervised outlier detection may not correctly detect group anomalies with higher density levels. As for the supervised outlier detection, although high detection rates and optimal parameters can usually be achieved, obtaining sufficient and correct labels is a time-consuming task. To address these issues, we focus on semi-supervised outlier detection with few identified anomalies, in the hope of using limited labels to achieve high detection accuracy. First, we propose a novel detection model Dual-GAN, which can directly utilize the potential information in identified anomalies to detect discrete outliers and partially identified group anomalies simultaneously. And then, considering the instances with similar output values may not all be similar in a complex data structure, we replace the two MO-GAN components in Dual-GAN with the combination of RCC and M-GAN (RCC-Dual-GAN). In addition, to deal with the evaluation of Nash equilibrium and the selection of optimal model, two evaluation indicators are created and introduced into the two models to make the detection process more intelligent. Extensive experiments on both benchmark datasets and two practical tasks demonstrate that our proposed approaches (i.e., Dual-GAN and RCC-Dual-GAN) can significantly improve the accuracy of outlier detection even with only a few identified anomalies. Moreover, compared with the two MO-GAN components in Dual-GAN, the network structure combining RCC and M-GAN has greater stability in various situations.

  Limited datasets and complex nonlinear relationships are among the challenges that may emerge when applying econometrics to macroeconomic problems. This research proposes deep learning as an approach to transfer learning in the former case and to map relationships between variables in the latter case. Although macroeconomists already apply transfer learning when assuming a given a priori distribution in a Bayesian context, estimating a structural VAR with signal restriction and calibrating parameters based on results observed in other models, to name a few examples, advance in a more systematic transfer learning strategy in applied macroeconomics is the innovation we are introducing. We explore the proposed strategy empirically, showing that data from different but related domains, a type of transfer learning, helps identify the business cycle phases when there is no business cycle dating committee and to quick estimate a economic-based output gap. Next, since deep learning methods are a way of learning representations, those that are formed by the composition of multiple non-linear transformations, to yield more abstract representations, we apply deep learning for mapping low-frequency from high-frequency variables. The results obtained show the suitability of deep learning models applied to macroeconomic problems. First, models learned to classify United States business cycles correctly. Then, applying transfer learning, they were able to identify the business cycles of out-of-sample Brazilian and European data. Along the same lines, the models learned to estimate the output gap based on the U.S. data and obtained good performance when faced with Brazilian data. Additionally, deep learning proved adequate for mapping low-frequency variables from high-frequency data to interpolate, distribute, and extrapolate time series by related series.

  We study adversarial robustness of neural networks from a margin maximization perspective, where margins are defined as the distances from inputs to a classifier's decision boundary. Our study shows that maximizing margins can be achieved by minimizing the adversarial loss on the decision boundary at the "shortest successful perturbation", demonstrating a close connection between adversarial losses and the margins. We propose Max-Margin Adversarial (MMA) training to directly maximize the margins to achieve adversarial robustness. Instead of adversarial training with a fixed $\epsilon$, MMA offers an improvement by enabling adaptive selection of the "correct" $\epsilon$ as the margin individually for each datapoint. In addition, we rigorously analyze adversarial training with the perspective of margin maximization, and provide an alternative interpretation for adversarial training, maximizing either a lower or an upper bound of the margins. Our experiments empirically confirm our theory and demonstrate MMA training's efficacy on the MNIST and CIFAR10 datasets w.r.t. $\ell_\infty$ and $\ell_2$ robustness. Code and models are available at https://github.com/BorealisAI/mma_training.

  The purpose of accounting audit is to have clear understanding on the financial activities of a company, which can be enhanced by machine learning or reinforcement learning as numeric analysis better than manual analysis can be made. For the purpose of assessment on the relevance, completeness and accuracy of the information produced by entity pertaining to the newly implemented International Financial Reporting Standard 16 Lease (IFRS 16) is one of such candidates as its characteristic of requiring the understanding on the nature of contracts and its complete analysis from listing up without omission, which can be enhanced by the digitalization of contracts for the purpose of creating the lists, still leaving the need of auditing cash flows of companies for the possible omission due to the potential error at the stage of data collection, especially for entities with various short or middle term business sites and related leases, such as construction entities.   The implementation of the reinforcement learning and its well-known code is to be made for the purpose of drawing the possibility and utilizability of interpreters from domain knowledge to numerical system, also can be called 'gamification interpreter' or 'numericalization interpreter' which can be referred or compared to the extrapolation with nondimensional numbers, such as Froude Number, in physics, which was a source of inspiration at this study. Studies on the interpreters can be able to empower the utilizability of artificial general intelligence in domain and commercial area.

  In this paper, we propose POTATOES (Partitioning OverfiTting AuTOencoder EnSemble), a new method for unsupervised outlier detection (UOD). More precisely, given any autoencoder for UOD, this technique can be used to improve its accuracy while at the same time removing the burden of tuning its regularization. The idea is to not regularize at all, but to rather randomly partition the data into sufficiently many equally sized parts, overfit each part with its own autoencoder, and to use the maximum over all autoencoder reconstruction errors as the anomaly score. We apply our model to various realistic datasets and show that if the set of inliers is dense enough, our method indeed improves the UOD performance of a given autoencoder significantly. For reproducibility, the code is made available on github so the reader can recreate the results in this paper as well as apply the method to other autoencoders and datasets.

  We consider the problem of learning from noisy data in practical settings where the size of data is too large to store on a single machine. More challenging, the data coming from the wild may contain malicious outliers. To address the scalability and robustness issues, we present an online robust learning (ORL) approach. ORL is simple to implement and has provable robustness guarantee -- in stark contrast to existing online learning approaches that are generally fragile to outliers. We specialize the ORL approach for two concrete cases: online robust principal component analysis and online linear regression. We demonstrate the efficiency and robustness advantages of ORL through comprehensive simulations and predicting image tags on a large-scale data set. We also discuss extension of the ORL to distributed learning and provide experimental evaluations.

  Image search engines rely on appropriately designed ranking features that capture various aspects of the content semantics as well as the historic popularity. In this work, we consider the role of colour in this relevance matching process. Our work is motivated by the observation that a significant fraction of user queries have an inherent colour associated with them. While some queries contain explicit colour mentions (such as 'black car' and 'yellow daisies'), other queries have implicit notions of colour (such as 'sky' and 'grass'). Furthermore, grounding queries in colour is not a mapping to a single colour, but a distribution in colour space. For instance, a search for 'trees' tends to have a bimodal distribution around the colours green and brown. We leverage historical clickthrough data to produce a colour representation for search queries and propose a recurrent neural network architecture to encode unseen queries into colour space. We also show how this embedding can be learnt alongside a cross-modal relevance ranker from impression logs where a subset of the result images were clicked. We demonstrate that the use of a query-image colour distance feature leads to an improvement in the ranker performance as measured by users' preferences of clicked versus skipped images.

  In most machine learning algorithms, training data is assumed to be independent and identically distributed (iid). When it is not the case, the algorithm's performances are challenged, leading to the famous phenomenon of catastrophic forgetting. Algorithms dealing with it are gathered in the Continual Learning research field. In this paper, we study the regularization based approaches to continual learning and show that those approaches can not learn to discriminate classes from different tasks in an elemental continual benchmark: the class-incremental scenario. We make theoretical reasoning to prove this shortcoming and illustrate it with examples and experiments. Moreover, we show that it can have some important consequences on continual multi-tasks reinforcement learning or in pre-trained models used for continual learning. We believe that highlighting and understanding the shortcomings of regularization strategies will help us to use them more efficiently.

  A limiting factor towards the wide routine use of wearables devices for continuous healthcare monitoring is their cumbersome and obtrusive nature. This is particularly true for electroencephalography (EEG) recordings, which require the placement of multiple electrodes in contact with the scalp. In this work, we propose to identify the optimal wearable EEG electrode set-up, in terms of minimal number of electrodes, comfortable location and performance, for EEG-based event detection and monitoring. By relying on the demonstrated power of autoencoder (AE) networks to learn latent representations from high-dimensional data, our proposed strategy trains an AE architecture in a one-class classification setup with different electrode set-ups as input data. The resulting models are assessed using the F-score and the best set-up is chosen according to the established optimal criteria. Using alpha wave detection as use case, we demonstrate that the proposed method allows to detect an alpha state from an optimal set-up consisting of electrodes in the forehead and behind the ear, with an average F-score of 0.78. Our results suggest that a learning-based approach can be used to enable the design and implementation of optimized wearable devices for real-life healthcare monitoring.

  For understanding generic documents, information like font sizes, column layout, and generally the positioning of words may carry semantic information that is crucial for solving a downstream document intelligence task. Our novel BERTgrid, which is based on Chargrid by Katti et al. (2018), represents a document as a grid of contextualized word piece embedding vectors, thereby making its spatial structure and semantics accessible to the processing neural network. The contextualized embedding vectors are retrieved from a BERT language model. We use BERTgrid in combination with a fully convolutional network on a semantic instance segmentation task for extracting fields from invoices. We demonstrate its performance on tabulated line item and document header field extraction.

  In Bayesian machine learning, conjugate priors are popular, mostly due to mathematical convenience. In this paper, we show that there are deeper reasons for choosing a conjugate prior. Specifically, we formulate the conjugate prior in the form of Bregman divergence and show that it is the inherent geometry of conjugate priors that makes them appropriate and intuitive. This geometric interpretation allows one to view the hyperparameters of conjugate priors as the {\it effective} sample points, thus providing additional intuition. We use this geometric understanding of conjugate priors to derive the hyperparameters and expression of the prior used to couple the generative and discriminative components of a hybrid model for semi-supervised learning.

  As deep reinforcement learning (DRL) has been recognized as an effective approach in quantitative finance, getting hands-on experiences is attractive to beginners. However, to train a practical DRL trading agent that decides where to trade, at what price, and what quantity involves error-prone and arduous development and debugging. In this paper, we introduce a DRL library FinRL that facilitates beginners to expose themselves to quantitative finance and to develop their own stock trading strategies. Along with easily-reproducible tutorials, FinRL library allows users to streamline their own developments and to compare with existing schemes easily. Within FinRL, virtual environments are configured with stock market datasets, trading agents are trained with neural networks, and extensive backtesting is analyzed via trading performance. Moreover, it incorporates important trading constraints such as transaction cost, market liquidity and the investor's degree of risk-aversion. FinRL is featured with completeness, hands-on tutorial and reproducibility that favors beginners: (i) at multiple levels of time granularity, FinRL simulates trading environments across various stock markets, including NASDAQ-100, DJIA, S&P 500, HSI, SSE 50, and CSI 300; (ii) organized in a layered architecture with modular structure, FinRL provides fine-tuned state-of-the-art DRL algorithms (DQN, DDPG, PPO, SAC, A2C, TD3, etc.), commonly-used reward functions and standard evaluation baselines to alleviate the debugging workloads and promote the reproducibility, and (iii) being highly extendable, FinRL reserves a complete set of user-import interfaces. Furthermore, we incorporated three application demonstrations, namely single stock trading, multiple stock trading, and portfolio allocation. The FinRL library will be available on Github at link https://github.com/AI4Finance-LLC/FinRL-Library.

We study geodesically convex (g-convex) problems that can be written as a difference of Euclidean convex functions. This structure arises in several optimization problems in statistics and machine learning, e.g., for matrix scaling, M-estimators for covariances, and Brascamp-Lieb inequalities. Our work offers efficient algorithms that on the one hand exploit g-convexity to ensure global optimality along with guarantees on iteration complexity. On the other hand, the split structure permits us to develop Euclidean Majorization-Minorization algorithms that help us bypass the need to compute expensive Riemannian operations such as exponential maps and parallel transport. We illustrate our results by specializing them to a few concrete optimization problems that have been previously studied in the machine learning literature. Ultimately, we hope our work helps motivate the broader search for mixed Euclidean-Riemannian optimization algorithms.

  Since time immemorial, people have been looking for ways to organize scientific knowledge into some systems to facilitate search and discovery of new ideas. The problem was partially solved in the pre-Internet era using library classifications, but nowadays it is nearly impossible to classify all scientific and popular scientific knowledge manually. There is a clear gap between the diversity and the amount of data available on the Internet and the algorithms for automatic structuring of such data. In our preliminary study, we approach the problem of knowledge discovery on web-scale data with diverse text sources and propose an algorithm to aggregate multiple collections into a single hierarchical topic model. We implement a web service named Rysearch to demonstrate the concept of topical exploratory search and make it available online.

  Counterfactual explanations, which deal with "why not?" scenarios, can provide insightful explanations to an AI agent's behavior. In this work, we focus on generating counterfactual explanations for deep reinforcement learning (RL) agents which operate in visual input environments like Atari. We introduce counterfactual state explanations, a novel example-based approach to counterfactual explanations based on generative deep learning. Specifically, a counterfactual state illustrates what minimal change is needed to an Atari game image such that the agent chooses a different action. We also evaluate the effectiveness of counterfactual states on human participants who are not machine learning experts. Our first user study investigates if humans can discern if the counterfactual state explanations are produced by the actual game or produced by a generative deep learning approach. Our second user study investigates if counterfactual state explanations can help non-expert participants identify a flawed agent; we compare against a baseline approach based on a nearest neighbor explanation which uses images from the actual game. Our results indicate that counterfactual state explanations have sufficient fidelity to the actual game images to enable non-experts to more effectively identify a flawed RL agent compared to the nearest neighbor baseline and to having no explanation at all.

  In this work, we address time-series forecasting as a computer vision task. We capture input data as an image and train a model to produce the subsequent image. This approach results in predicting distributions as opposed to pointwise values. To assess the robustness and quality of our approach, we examine various datasets and multiple evaluation metrics. Our experiments show that our forecasting tool is effective for cyclic data but somewhat less for irregular data such as stock prices. Importantly, when using image-based evaluation metrics, we find our method to outperform various baselines, including ARIMA, and a numerical variation of our deep learning approach.

  In this paper, we describe a novel solution to compute optimal warehouse allocations for fashion inventory. Procured inventory must be optimally allocated to warehouses in proportion to the regional demand around the warehouse. This will ensure that demand is fulfilled by the nearest warehouse thereby minimizing the delivery logistics cost and delivery times. These are key metrics to drive profitability and customer experience respectively. Warehouses have capacity constraints and allocations must minimize inter warehouse redistribution cost of the inventory. This leads to maximum Regional Utilization (RU). We use machine learning and optimization methods to build an efficient solution to this warehouse allocation problem. We use machine learning models to estimate the geographical split of the demand for every product. We use Integer Programming methods to compute the optimal feasible warehouse allocations considering the capacity constraints. We conduct a back-testing by using this solution and validate the efficiency of this model by demonstrating a significant uptick in two key metrics Regional Utilization (RU) and Percentage Two-day-delivery (2DD). We use this process to intelligently create purchase orders with warehouse assignments for Myntra, a leading online fashion retailer.

  Open-Access and Collaborative Consumer Health Vocabulary (OAC CHV, or CHV for short), is a collection of medical terms written in plain English. It provides a list of simple, easy, and clear terms that laymen prefer to use rather than an equivalent professional medical term. The National Library of Medicine (NLM) has integrated and mapped the CHV terms to their Unified Medical Language System (UMLS). These CHV terms mapped to 56000 professional concepts on the UMLS. We found that about 48% of these laymen's terms are still jargon and matched with the professional terms on the UMLS. In this paper, we present an enhanced word embedding technique that generates new CHV terms from a consumer-generated text. We downloaded our corpus from a healthcare social media and evaluated our new method based on iterative feedback to word embedding using ground truth built from the existing CHV terms. Our feedback algorithm outperformed unmodified GLoVe and new CHV terms have been detected.

  Lack of reliability is a well-known issue for reinforcement learning (RL) algorithms. This problem has gained increasing attention in recent years, and efforts to improve it have grown substantially. To aid RL researchers and production users with the evaluation and improvement of reliability, we propose a set of metrics that quantitatively measure different aspects of reliability. In this work, we focus on variability and risk, both during training and after learning (on a fixed policy). We designed these metrics to be general-purpose, and we also designed complementary statistical tests to enable rigorous comparisons on these metrics. In this paper, we first describe the desired properties of the metrics and their design, the aspects of reliability that they measure, and their applicability to different scenarios. We then describe the statistical tests and make additional practical recommendations for reporting results. The metrics and accompanying statistical tools have been made available as an open-source library at https://github.com/google-research/rl-reliability-metrics. We apply our metrics to a set of common RL algorithms and environments, compare them, and analyze the results.

  Data labeling in supervised learning is considered an expensive and infeasible tool in some conditions. The self-supervised learning method is proposed to tackle the learning effectiveness with fewer labeled data, however, there is a lack of confidence in the size of labeled data needed to achieve adequate results. This study aims to draw a baseline on the proportion of the labeled data that models can appreciate to yield competent accuracy when compared to training with additional labels. The study implements the kaggle.com' cats-vs-dogs dataset, Mnist and Fashion-Mnist to investigate the self-supervised learning task by implementing random rotations augmentation on the original datasets. To reveal the true effectiveness of the pretext process in self-supervised learning, the original dataset is divided into smaller batches, and learning is repeated on each batch with and without the pretext pre-training. Results show that the pretext process in the self-supervised learning improves the accuracy around 15% in the downstream classification task when compared to the plain supervised learning.

  Generative adversarial networks (GAN) have shown remarkable results in image generation tasks. High fidelity class-conditional GAN methods often rely on stabilization techniques by constraining the global Lipschitz continuity. Such regularization leads to less expressive models and slower convergence speed; other techniques, such as the large batch training, require unconventional computing power and are not widely accessible. In this paper, we develop an efficient algorithm, namely FastGAN (Free AdverSarial Training), to improve the speed and quality of GAN training based on the adversarial training technique. We benchmark our method on CIFAR10, a subset of ImageNet, and the full ImageNet datasets. We choose strong baselines such as SNGAN and SAGAN; the results demonstrate that our training algorithm can achieve better generation quality (in terms of the Inception score and Frechet Inception distance) with less overall training time. Most notably, our training algorithm brings ImageNet training to the broader public by requiring 2-4 GPUs.

  Medical image acquisition is often intervented by unwanted noise that corrupts the information content. This paper introduces an unsupervised medical image denoising technique that learns noise characteristics from the available images and constructs denoised images. It comprises of two blocks of data processing, viz., patch-based dictionaries that indirectly learn the noise and residual learning (RL) that directly learns the noise. The model is generalized to account for both 2D and 3D images considering different medical imaging instruments. The images are considered one-by-one from the stack of MRI/CT images as well as the entire stack is considered, and decomposed into overlapping image/volume patches. These patches are given to the patch-based dictionary learning to learn noise characteristics via sparse representation while given to the RL part to directly learn the noise properties. K-singular value decomposition (K-SVD) algorithm for sparse representation is used for training patch-based dictionaries. On the other hand, residue in the patches is trained using the proposed deep residue network. Iterating on these two parts, an optimum noise characterization for each image/volume patch is captured and in turn it is subtracted from the available respective image/volume patch. The obtained denoised image/volume patches are finally assembled to a denoised image or 3D stack. We provide an analysis of the proposed approach with other approaches. Experiments on MRI/CT datasets are run on a GPU-based supercomputer and the comparative results show that the proposed algorithm preserves the critical information in the images as well as improves the visual quality of the images.

  When randomized ensemble methods such as bagging and random forests are implemented, a basic question arises: Is the ensemble large enough? In particular, the practitioner desires a rigorous guarantee that a given ensemble will perform nearly as well as an ideal infinite ensemble (trained on the same data). The purpose of the current paper is to develop a bootstrap method for solving this problem in the context of regression --- which complements our companion paper in the context of classification (Lopes 2019). In contrast to the classification setting, the current paper shows that theoretical guarantees for the proposed bootstrap can be established under much weaker assumptions. In addition, we illustrate the flexibility of the method by showing how it can be adapted to measure algorithmic convergence for variable selection. Lastly, we provide numerical results demonstrating that the method works well in a range of situations.

  There have been different strategies to improve the performance of a machine learning model, e.g., increasing the depth, width, and/or nonlinearity of the model, and using ensemble learning to aggregate multiple base/weak learners in parallel or in series. This paper proposes a novel strategy called patch learning (PL) for this problem. It consists of three steps: 1) train an initial global model using all training data; 2) identify from the initial global model the patches which contribute the most to the learning error, and train a (local) patch model for each such patch; and, 3) update the global model using training data that do not fall into any patch. To use a PL model, we first determine if the input falls into any patch. If yes, then the corresponding patch model is used to compute the output. Otherwise, the global model is used. We explain in detail how PL can be implemented using fuzzy systems. Five regression problems on 1D/2D/3D curve fitting, nonlinear system identification, and chaotic time-series prediction, verified its effectiveness. To our knowledge, the PL idea has not appeared in the literature before, and it opens up a promising new line of research in machine learning.

  In this report we want to present our method and results for the Carotid Artery Vessel Wall Segmentation Challenge. We propose an image-based pipeline utilizing the U-Net architecture and location priors to solve the segmentation problem at hand.

  We consider the problem of online estimation of a real-valued signal corrupted by oblivious zero-mean noise using linear estimators. The estimator is required to iteratively predict the underlying signal based on the current and several last noisy observations, and its performance is measured by the mean-square-error. We describe and analyze an algorithm for this task which: 1. Achieves logarithmic adaptive regret against the best linear filter in hindsight. This bound is assyptotically tight, and resolves the question of Moon and Weissman [1]. 2. Runs in linear time in terms of the number of filter coefficients. Previous constructions required at least quadratic time.

  Federated learning is a promising machine learning technique that enables multiple clients to collaboratively build a model without revealing the raw data to each other. Among various types of federated learning methods, horizontal federated learning (HFL) is the best-studied category and handles homogeneous feature spaces. However, in the case of heterogeneous feature spaces, HFL uses only common features and leaves client-specific features unutilized. In this paper, we propose a HFL method using neural networks named continual horizontal federated learning (CHFL), a continual learning approach to improve the performance of HFL by taking advantage of unique features of each client. CHFL splits the network into two columns corresponding to common features and unique features, respectively. It jointly trains the first column by using common features through vanilla HFL and locally trains the second column by using unique features and leveraging the knowledge of the first one via lateral connections without interfering with the federated training of it. We conduct experiments on various real world datasets and show that CHFL greatly outperforms vanilla HFL that only uses common features and local learning that uses all features that each client has.

  Segmentation of 3D micro-Computed Tomographic uCT) images of rock samples is essential for further Digital Rock Physics (DRP) analysis, however, conventional methods such as thresholding, watershed segmentation, and converging active contours are susceptible to user-bias. Deep Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) have produced accurate pixelwise semantic segmentation results with natural images and $\mu$CT rock images, however, physical accuracy is not well documented. The performance of 4 CNN architectures is tested for 2D and 3D cases in 10 configurations. Manually segmented uCT images of Mt. Simon Sandstone are treated as ground truth and used as training and validation data, with a high voxelwise accuracy (over 99%) achieved. Downstream analysis is then used to validate physical accuracy. The topology of each segmented phase is calculated, and the absolute permeability and multiphase flow is modelled with direct simulation in single and mixed wetting cases. These physical measures of connectivity, and flow characteristics show high variance and uncertainty, with models that achieve 95\%+ in voxelwise accuracy possessing permeabilities and connectivities orders of magnitude off. A new network architecture is also introduced as a hybrid fusion of U-net and ResNet, combining short and long skip connections in a Network-in-Network configuration. The 3D implementation outperforms all other tested models in voxelwise and physical accuracy measures. The network architecture and the volume fraction in the dataset (and associated weighting), are factors that not only influence the accuracy trade-off in the voxelwise case, but is especially important in training a physically accurate model for segmentation.

  We present a new data-driven model to reconstruct nonlinear flow from spatially sparse observations. The model is a version of a conditional variational auto-encoder (CVAE), which allows for probabilistic reconstruction and thus uncertainty quantification of the prediction. We show that in our model, conditioning on the measurements from the complete flow data leads to a CVAE where only the decoder depends on the measurements. For this reason we call the model as Semi-Conditional Variational Autoencoder (SCVAE). The method, reconstructions and associated uncertainty estimates are illustrated on the velocity data from simulations of 2D flow around a cylinder and bottom currents from the Bergen Ocean Model. The reconstruction errors are compared to those of the Gappy Proper Orthogonal Decomposition (GPOD) method.

  In this paper, we propose a general cross-layer optimization framework in which we explicitly consider both the heterogeneous and dynamically changing characteristics of delay-sensitive applications and the underlying time-varying network conditions. We consider both the independently decodable data units (DUs, e.g. packets) and the interdependent DUs whose dependencies are captured by a directed acyclic graph (DAG). We first formulate the cross-layer design as a non-linear constrained optimization problem by assuming complete knowledge of the application characteristics and the underlying network conditions. The constrained cross-layer optimization is decomposed into several cross-layer optimization subproblems for each DU and two master problems. The proposed decomposition method determines the necessary message exchanges between layers for achieving the optimal cross-layer solution. However, the attributes (e.g. distortion impact, delay deadline etc) of future DUs as well as the network conditions are often unknown in the considered real-time applications. The impact of current cross-layer actions on the future DUs can be characterized by a state-value function in the Markov decision process (MDP) framework. Based on the dynamic programming solution to the MDP, we develop a low-complexity cross-layer optimization algorithm using online learning for each DU transmission. This online algorithm can be implemented in real-time in order to cope with unknown source characteristics, network dynamics and resource constraints. Our numerical results demonstrate the efficiency of the proposed online algorithm.

  The dynamic hand gesture recognition task has seen studies on various unimodal and multimodal methods. Previously, researchers have explored depth and 2D-skeleton-based multimodal fusion CRNNs (Convolutional Recurrent Neural Networks) but have had limitations in getting expected recognition results. In this paper, we revisit this approach to hand gesture recognition and suggest several improvements. We observe that raw depth images possess low contrast in the hand regions of interest (ROI). They do not highlight important fine details, such as finger orientation, overlap between the finger and palm, or overlap between multiple fingers. We thus propose quantizing the depth values into several discrete regions, to create a higher contrast between several key parts of the hand. In addition, we suggest several ways to tackle the high variance problem in existing multimodal fusion CRNN architectures. We evaluate our method on two benchmarks: the DHG-14/28 dataset and the SHREC'17 track dataset. Our approach shows a significant improvement in accuracy and parameter efficiency over previous similar multimodal methods, with a comparable result to the state-of-the-art.

  Non-autoregressive (NAR) neural machine translation is usually done via knowledge distillation from an autoregressive (AR) model. Under this framework, we leverage large monolingual corpora to improve the NAR model's performance, with the goal of transferring the AR model's generalization ability while preventing overfitting. On top of a strong NAR baseline, our experimental results on the WMT14 En-De and WMT16 En-Ro news translation tasks confirm that monolingual data augmentation consistently improves the performance of the NAR model to approach the teacher AR model's performance, yields comparable or better results than the best non-iterative NAR methods in the literature and helps reduce overfitting in the training process.

  The cost of computing the spectrum of Laplacian matrices hinders the application of spectral clustering to large data sets. While approximations recover computational tractability, they can potentially affect clustering performance. This paper proposes a practical approach to learn spectral clustering based on adaptive stochastic gradient optimization. Crucially, the proposed approach recovers the exact spectrum of Laplacian matrices in the limit of the iterations, and the cost of each iteration is linear in the number of samples. Extensive experimental validation on data sets with up to half a million samples demonstrate its scalability and its ability to outperform state-of-the-art approximate methods to learn spectral clustering for a given computational budget.

  New COVID-19 epidemic strains like Delta and Omicron with increased transmissibility and pathogenicity emerge and spread across the whole world rapidly while causing high mortality during the pandemic period. Early prediction of possible variants (especially spike protein) of COVID-19 epidemic strains based on available mutated SARS-CoV-2 RNA sequences may lead to early prevention and treatment. Here, combining the advantage of quantum and quantum-inspired algorithms with the wide application of deep learning, we propose a development tool named DeepQuantum, and use this software to realize the goal of predicting spike protein variation structure of COVID-19 epidemic strains. In addition, this hybrid quantum-classical model for the first time achieves quantum-inspired blur convolution similar to classical depthwise convolution and also successfully applies quantum progressive training with quantum circuits, both of which guarantee that our model is the quantum counterpart of the famous style-based GAN. The results state that the fidelities of random generating spike protein variation structure are always beyond 96% for Delta, 94% for Omicron. The training loss curve is more stable and converges better with multiple loss functions compared with the corresponding classical algorithm. At last, evidences that quantum-inspired algorithms promote the classical deep learning and hybrid models effectively predict the mutant strains are strong.

  Belief propagation is a fundamental message-passing algorithm for numerous applications in machine learning. It is known that belief propagation algorithm is exact on tree graphs. However, belief propagation is run on loopy graphs in most applications. So, understanding the behavior of belief propagation on loopy graphs has been a major topic for researchers in different areas. In this paper, we study the convergence behavior of generalized belief propagation algorithm on graphs with motifs (triangles, loops, etc.) We show under a certain initialization, generalized belief propagation converges to the global optimum of the Bethe free energy for ferromagnetic Ising models on graphs with motifs.

  Many machine learning models require a training procedure based on running stochastic gradient descent. A key element for the efficiency of those algorithms is the choice of the learning rate schedule. While finding good learning rates schedules using Bayesian optimisation has been tackled by several authors, adapting it dynamically in a data-driven way is an open question. This is of high practical importance to users that need to train a single, expensive model. To tackle this problem, we introduce an original probabilistic model for traces of optimisers, based on latent Gaussian processes and an auto-/regressive formulation, that flexibly adjusts to abrupt changes of behaviours induced by new learning rate values. As illustrated, this model is well-suited to tackle a set of problems: first, for the on-line adaptation of the learning rate for a cold-started run; then, for tuning the schedule for a set of similar tasks (in a classical BO setup), as well as warm-starting it for a new task.

  In graph motivated learning, label propagation largely depends on data affinity represented as edges between connected data points. The affinity assignment implicitly assumes even distribution of data on the manifold. This assumption may not hold and may lead to inaccurate metric assignment due to drift towards high-density regions. The drift affected heat kernel based affinity with a globally fixed Parzen window either discards genuine neighbors or forces distant data points to become a member of the neighborhood. This yields a biased affinity matrix. In this paper, the bias due to uneven data sampling on the Riemannian manifold is catered to by a variable Parzen window determined as a function of neighborhood size, ambient dimension, flatness range, etc. Additionally, affinity adjustment is used which offsets the effect of uneven sampling responsible for the bias. An affinity metric which takes into consideration the irregular sampling effect to yield accurate label propagation is proposed. Extensive experiments on synthetic and real-world data sets confirm that the proposed method increases the classification accuracy significantly and outperforms existing Parzen window estimators in graph Laplacian manifold regularization methods.

  Rewards are sparse in the real world and most of today's reinforcement learning algorithms struggle with such sparsity. One solution to this problem is to allow the agent to create rewards for itself - thus making rewards dense and more suitable for learning. In particular, inspired by curious behaviour in animals, observing something novel could be rewarded with a bonus. Such bonus is summed up with the real task reward - making it possible for RL algorithms to learn from the combined reward. We propose a new curiosity method which uses episodic memory to form the novelty bonus. To determine the bonus, the current observation is compared with the observations in memory. Crucially, the comparison is done based on how many environment steps it takes to reach the current observation from those in memory - which incorporates rich information about environment dynamics. This allows us to overcome the known "couch-potato" issues of prior work - when the agent finds a way to instantly gratify itself by exploiting actions which lead to hardly predictable consequences. We test our approach in visually rich 3D environments in ViZDoom, DMLab and MuJoCo. In navigational tasks from ViZDoom and DMLab, our agent outperforms the state-of-the-art curiosity method ICM. In MuJoCo, an ant equipped with our curiosity module learns locomotion out of the first-person-view curiosity only.

  A universal unanswered question in neuroscience and machine learning is whether computers can decode the patterns of the human brain. Multi-Voxels Pattern Analysis (MVPA) is a critical tool for addressing this question. However, there are two challenges in the previous MVPA methods, which include decreasing sparsity and noises in the extracted features and increasing the performance of prediction. In overcoming mentioned challenges, this paper proposes Anatomical Pattern Analysis (APA) for decoding visual stimuli in the human brain. This framework develops a novel anatomical feature extraction method and a new imbalance AdaBoost algorithm for binary classification. Further, it utilizes an Error-Correcting Output Codes (ECOC) method for multi-class prediction. APA can automatically detect active regions for each category of the visual stimuli. Moreover, it enables us to combine homogeneous datasets for applying advanced classification. Experimental studies on 4 visual categories (words, consonants, objects and scrambled photos) demonstrate that the proposed approach achieves superior performance to state-of-the-art methods.

  Selecting an optimizer is a central step in the contemporary deep learning pipeline. In this paper, we demonstrate the sensitivity of optimizer comparisons to the hyperparameter tuning protocol. Our findings suggest that the hyperparameter search space may be the single most important factor explaining the rankings obtained by recent empirical comparisons in the literature. In fact, we show that these results can be contradicted when hyperparameter search spaces are changed. As tuning effort grows without bound, more general optimizers should never underperform the ones they can approximate (i.e., Adam should never perform worse than momentum), but recent attempts to compare optimizers either assume these inclusion relationships are not practically relevant or restrict the hyperparameters in ways that break the inclusions. In our experiments, we find that inclusion relationships between optimizers matter in practice and always predict optimizer comparisons. In particular, we find that the popular adaptive gradient methods never underperform momentum or gradient descent. We also report practical tips around tuning often ignored hyperparameters of adaptive gradient methods and raise concerns about fairly benchmarking optimizers for neural network training.

  Quantum key distribution (QKD) allows two distant parties to share encryption keys with security based on laws of quantum mechanics. In order to share the keys, the quantum bits have to be transmitted from the sender to the receiver over a noisy quantum channel. In order to transmit this information, efficient encoders and decoders need to be designed. However, large-scale design of quantum encoders and decoders have to depend on the channel characteristics and require look-up tables which require memory that is exponential in the number of qubits. In order to alleviate that, this paper aims to design the quantum encoders and decoders for expander codes by adapting techniques from machine learning including reinforcement learning and neural networks to the quantum domain. The proposed quantum decoder trains a neural network which is trained using the maximum aposteriori error for the syndromes, eliminating the use of large lookup tables. The quantum encoder uses deep Q-learning based techniques to optimize the generator matrices in the quantum Calderbank-Shor-Steane (CSS) codes. The evaluation results demonstrate improved performance of the proposed quantum encoder and decoder designs as compared to the quantum expander codes.

  With the ever-increasing growth of online recruitment data, job-resume matching has become an important task to automatically match jobs with suitable resumes. This task is typically casted as a supervised text matching problem. Supervised learning is powerful when the labeled data is sufficient. However, on online recruitment platforms, job-resume interaction data is sparse and noisy, which affects the performance of job-resume match algorithms. To alleviate these problems, in this paper, we propose a novel multi-view co-teaching network from sparse interaction data for job-resume matching. Our network consists of two major components, namely text-based matching model and relation-based matching model. The two parts capture semantic compatibility in two different views, and complement each other. In order to address the challenges from sparse and noisy data, we design two specific strategies to combine the two components. First, two components share the learned parameters or representations, so that the original representations of each component can be enhanced. More importantly, we adopt a co-teaching mechanism to reduce the influence of noise in training data. The core idea is to let the two components help each other by selecting more reliable training instances. The two strategies focus on representation enhancement and data enhancement, respectively. Compared with pure text-based matching models, the proposed approach is able to learn better data representations from limited or even sparse interaction data, which is more resistible to noise in training data. Experiment results have demonstrated that our model is able to outperform state-of-the-art methods for job-resume matching.

Chip placement has been one of the most time consuming task in any semi conductor area, Due to this negligence, many projects are pushed and chips availability in real markets get delayed. An engineer placing macros on a chip also needs to place it optimally to reduce the three important factors like power, performance and time. Looking at these prior problems we wanted to introduce a new method using Reinforcement Learning where we train the model to place the nodes of a chip netlist onto a chip canvas. We want to build a neural architecture that will accurately reward the agent across a wide variety of input netlist correctly.

  Domain adaptation solves the learning problem in a target domain by leveraging the knowledge in a relevant source domain. While remarkable advances have been made, almost all existing domain adaptation methods heavily require large amounts of unlabeled target domain data for learning domain invariant representations to achieve good generalizability on the target domain. In fact, in many real-world applications, target domain data may not always be available. In this paper, we study the cases where at the training phase the target domain data is unavailable and only well-labeled source domain data is available, called robust domain adaptation. To tackle this problem, under the assumption that causal relationships between features and the class variable are robust across domains, we propose a novel Causal AutoEncoder (CAE), which integrates deep autoencoder and causal structure learning into a unified model to learn causal representations only using data from a single source domain. Specifically, a deep autoencoder model is adopted to learn low-dimensional representations, and a causal structure learning model is designed to separate the low-dimensional representations into two groups: causal representations and task-irrelevant representations. Using three real-world datasets the extensive experiments have validated the effectiveness of CAE compared to eleven state-of-the-art methods.

  Sparse-reward domains are challenging for reinforcement learning algorithms since significant exploration is needed before encountering reward for the first time. Hierarchical reinforcement learning can facilitate exploration by reducing the number of decisions necessary before obtaining a reward. In this paper, we present a novel hierarchical reinforcement learning framework based on the compression of an invariant state space that is common to a range of tasks. The algorithm introduces subtasks which consist of moving between the state partitions induced by the compression. Results indicate that the algorithm can successfully solve complex sparse-reward domains, and transfer knowledge to solve new, previously unseen tasks more quickly.

  We introduce a notion of algorithmic stability of learning algorithms---that we term \emph{argument stability}---that captures stability of the hypothesis output by the learning algorithm in the normed space of functions from which hypotheses are selected. The main result of the paper bounds the generalization error of any learning algorithm in terms of its argument stability. The bounds are based on martingale inequalities in the Banach space to which the hypotheses belong. We apply the general bounds to bound the performance of some learning algorithms based on empirical risk minimization and stochastic gradient descent.

  Safety is a critical concern when deploying reinforcement learning agents for realistic tasks. Recently, safe reinforcement learning algorithms have been developed to optimize the agent's performance while avoiding violations of safety constraints. However, few studies have addressed the non-stationary disturbances in the environments, which may cause catastrophic outcomes. In this paper, we propose the context-aware safe reinforcement learning (CASRL) method, a meta-learning framework to realize safe adaptation in non-stationary environments. We use a probabilistic latent variable model to achieve fast inference of the posterior environment transition distribution given the context data. Safety constraints are then evaluated with uncertainty-aware trajectory sampling. The high cost of safety violations leads to the rareness of unsafe records in the dataset. We address this issue by enabling prioritized sampling during model training and formulating prior safety constraints with domain knowledge during constrained planning. The algorithm is evaluated in realistic safety-critical environments with non-stationary disturbances. Results show that the proposed algorithm significantly outperforms existing baselines in terms of safety and robustness.

  In this paper, we describe application of Neuroevolution to a P2P lending problem in which a credit evaluation model is updated based on streaming data. We apply the algorithm Neuroevolution of Augmenting Topologies (NEAT) which has not been widely applied generally in the credit evaluation domain. In addition to comparing the methodology with other widely applied machine learning techniques, we develop and evaluate several enhancements to the algorithm which make it suitable for the particular aspects of online learning that are relevant in the problem. These include handling unbalanced streaming data, high computation costs, and maintaining model similarity over time, that is training the stochastic learning algorithm with new data but minimizing model change except where there is a clear benefit for model performance

  Mobile network operators store an enormous amount of information like log files that describe various events and users' activities. Analysis of these logs might be used in many critical applications such as detecting cyber-attacks, finding behavioral patterns of users, security incident response, network forensics, etc. In a cellular network Call Detail Records (CDR) is one type of such logs containing metadata of calls and usually includes valuable information about contact such as the phone numbers of originating and receiving subscribers, call duration, the area of activity, type of call (SMS or voice call) and a timestamp. With anomaly detection, it is possible to determine abnormal reduction or increment of network traffic in an area or for a particular person. This paper's primary goal is to study subscribers' behavior in a cellular network, mainly predicting the number of calls in a region and detecting anomalies in the network traffic. In this paper, a new hybrid method is proposed based on various anomaly detection methods such as GARCH, K-means, and Neural Network to determine the anomalous data. Moreover, we have discussed the possible causes of such anomalies.

  We present fast classification techniques for sparse generalized linear and additive models. These techniques can handle thousands of features and thousands of observations in minutes, even in the presence of many highly correlated features. For fast sparse logistic regression, our computational speed-up over other best-subset search techniques owes to linear and quadratic surrogate cuts for the logistic loss that allow us to efficiently screen features for elimination, as well as use of a priority queue that favors a more uniform exploration of features. As an alternative to the logistic loss, we propose the exponential loss, which permits an analytical solution to the line search at each iteration. Our algorithms are generally 2 to 5 times faster than previous approaches. They produce interpretable models that have accuracy comparable to black box models on challenging datasets.

  Our universe is homogeneous and isotropic, and its perturbations obey translation and rotation symmetry. In this work we develop Translation and Rotation Equivariant Normalizing Flow (TRENF), a generative Normalizing Flow (NF) model which explicitly incorporates these symmetries, defining the data likelihood via a sequence of Fourier space-based convolutions and pixel-wise nonlinear transforms. TRENF gives direct access to the high dimensional data likelihood p(x|y) as a function of the labels y, such as cosmological parameters. In contrast to traditional analyses based on summary statistics, the NF approach has no loss of information since it preserves the full dimensionality of the data. On Gaussian random fields, the TRENF likelihood agrees well with the analytical expression and saturates the Fisher information content in the labels y. On nonlinear cosmological overdensity fields from N-body simulations, TRENF leads to significant improvements in constraining power over the standard power spectrum summary statistic. TRENF is also a generative model of the data, and we show that TRENF samples agree well with the N-body simulations it trained on, and that the inverse mapping of the data agrees well with a Gaussian white noise both visually and on various summary statistics: when this is perfectly achieved the resulting p(x|y) likelihood analysis becomes optimal. Finally, we develop a generalization of this model that can handle effects that break the symmetry of the data, such as the survey mask, which enables likelihood analysis on data without periodic boundaries.

  Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) represent an attractive and novel approach to generate realistic data, such as genes, proteins, or drugs, in synthetic biology. Here, we apply GANs to generate synthetic DNA sequences encoding for proteins of variable length. We propose a novel feedback-loop architecture, called Feedback GAN (FBGAN), to optimize the synthetic gene sequences for desired properties using an external function analyzer. The proposed architecture also has the advantage that the analyzer need not be differentiable. We apply the feedback-loop mechanism to two examples: 1) generating synthetic genes coding for antimicrobial peptides, and 2) optimizing synthetic genes for the secondary structure of their resulting peptides. A suite of metrics demonstrate that the GAN generated proteins have desirable biophysical properties. The FBGAN architecture can also be used to optimize GAN-generated datapoints for useful properties in domains beyond genomics.

  We study the task of differentially private clustering. For several basic clustering problems, including Euclidean DensestBall, 1-Cluster, k-means, and k-median, we give efficient differentially private algorithms that achieve essentially the same approximation ratios as those that can be obtained by any non-private algorithm, while incurring only small additive errors. This improves upon existing efficient algorithms that only achieve some large constant approximation factors.   Our results also imply an improved algorithm for the Sample and Aggregate privacy framework. Furthermore, we show that one of the tools used in our 1-Cluster algorithm can be employed to get a faster quantum algorithm for ClosestPair in a moderate number of dimensions.

  With advanced data analytical techniques, efforts for more accurate decision support systems for disease prediction are on rise. Surveys by World Health Organization (WHO) indicate a great increase in number of diabetic patients and related deaths each year. Early diagnosis of diabetes is a major concern among researchers and practitioners. The paper presents an application of \textit{Automatic Multilayer Perceptron }which\textit{ }is combined with an outlier detection method \textit{Enhanced Class Outlier Detection using distance based algorithm }to create a prediction framework named as Enhanced Class Outlier with Automatic Multi layer Perceptron (ECO-AMLP). A series of experiments are performed on publicly available Pima Indian Diabetes Dataset to compare ECO-AMLP with other individual classifiers as well as ensemble based methods. The outlier technique used in our framework gave better results as compared to other pre-processing and classification techniques. Finally, the results are compared with other state-of-the-art methods reported in literature for diabetes prediction on PIDD and achieved accuracy of 88.7\% bests all other reported studies.

Missing values are unavoidable in many applications of machine learning and present a challenge both during training and at test time. When variables are missing in recurring patterns, fitting separate pattern submodels have been proposed as a solution. However, independent models do not make efficient use of all available data. Conversely, fitting a shared model to the full data set typically relies on imputation which may be suboptimal when missingness depends on unobserved factors. We propose an alternative approach, called sharing pattern submodels, which make predictions that are a) robust to missing values at test time, b) maintains or improves the predictive power of pattern submodels, and c) has a short description enabling improved interpretability. We identify cases where sharing is provably optimal, even when missingness itself is predictive and when the prediction target depends on unobserved variables. Classification and regression experiments on synthetic data and two healthcare data sets demonstrate that our models achieve a favorable trade-off between pattern specialization and information sharing.

  Inter-subject variability between individuals poses a challenge in inter-subject brain signal analysis problems. A new algorithm for subject-selection based on clustering covariance matrices on a Riemannian manifold is proposed. After unsupervised selection of the subsets of relevant subjects, data in a cluster is mapped to a tangent space at the mean point of covariance matrices in that cluster and an SVM classifier on labeled data from relevant subjects is trained. Experiment on an EEG seizure database shows that the proposed method increases the accuracy over state-of-the-art from 86.83% to 89.84% and specificity from 87.38% to 89.64% while reducing the false positive rate/hour from 0.8/hour to 0.77/hour.

  This paper considers the problem of choosing a good classifier. For each problem there exist an optimal classifier, but none are optimal, regarding the error rate, in all cases. Because there exists a large number of classifiers, a user would rather prefer an all-purpose classifier that is easy to adjust, in the hope that it will do almost as good as the optimal. In this paper we establish a list of criteria that a good generalist classifier should satisfy . We first discuss data analytic, these criteria are presented. Six among the most popular classifiers are selected and scored according to these criteria. Tables allow to easily appreciate the relative values of each. In the end, random forests turn out to be the best classifiers.

  We revisit the problem of \emph{missing mass concentration}, developing a new method of estimating concentration of heterogenic sums, in spirit of celebrated Rosenthal's inequality. As a result we slightly improve the state-of-art bounds due to Ben-Hamou at al., and simplify the proofs.

  We propose a new majorization-minimization (MM) method for non-smooth and non-convex programs, which is general enough to include the existing MM methods. Besides the local majorization condition, we only require that the difference between the directional derivatives of the objective function and its surrogate function vanishes when the number of iterations approaches infinity, which is a very weak condition. So our method can use a surrogate function that directly approximates the non-smooth objective function. In comparison, all the existing MM methods construct the surrogate function by approximating the smooth component of the objective function. We apply our relaxed MM methods to the robust matrix factorization (RMF) problem with different regularizations, where our locally majorant algorithm shows advantages over the state-of-the-art approaches for RMF. This is the first algorithm for RMF ensuring, without extra assumptions, that any limit point of the iterates is a stationary point.

  Many computationally-efficient methods for Bayesian deep learning rely on continuous optimization algorithms, but the implementation of these methods requires significant changes to existing code-bases. In this paper, we propose Vprop, a method for Gaussian variational inference that can be implemented with two minor changes to the off-the-shelf RMSprop optimizer. Vprop also reduces the memory requirements of Black-Box Variational Inference by half. We derive Vprop using the conjugate-computation variational inference method, and establish its connections to Newton's method, natural-gradient methods, and extended Kalman filters. Overall, this paper presents Vprop as a principled, computationally-efficient, and easy-to-implement method for Bayesian deep learning.

  We argue that in fully-connected networks a phase transition delimits the over- and under-parametrized regimes where fitting can or cannot be achieved. Under some general conditions, we show that this transition is sharp for the hinge loss. In the whole over-parametrized regime, poor minima of the loss are not encountered during training since the number of constraints to satisfy is too small to hamper minimization. Our findings support a link between this transition and the generalization properties of the network: as we increase the number of parameters of a given model, starting from an under-parametrized network, we observe that the generalization error displays three phases: (i) initial decay, (ii) increase until the transition point --- where it displays a cusp --- and (iii) slow decay toward a constant for the rest of the over-parametrized regime. Thereby we identify the region where the classical phenomenon of over-fitting takes place, and the region where the model keeps improving, in line with previous empirical observations for modern neural networks.

  Learning from small data sets is critical in many practical applications where data collection is time consuming or expensive, e.g., robotics, animal experiments or drug design. Meta learning is one way to increase the data efficiency of learning algorithms by generalizing learned concepts from a set of training tasks to unseen, but related, tasks. Often, this relationship between tasks is hard coded or relies in some other way on human expertise. In this paper, we frame meta learning as a hierarchical latent variable model and infer the relationship between tasks automatically from data. We apply our framework in a model-based reinforcement learning setting and show that our meta-learning model effectively generalizes to novel tasks by identifying how new tasks relate to prior ones from minimal data. This results in up to a 60% reduction in the average interaction time needed to solve tasks compared to strong baselines.

  We present and empirically evaluate an efficient algorithm that learns to aggregate the predictions of an ensemble of binary classifiers. The algorithm uses the structure of the ensemble predictions on unlabeled data to yield significant performance improvements. It does this without making assumptions on the structure or origin of the ensemble, without parameters, and as scalably as linear learning. We empirically demonstrate these performance gains with random forests.

  Discovering community structure in complex networks is a mature field since a tremendous number of community detection methods have been introduced in the literature. Nevertheless, it is still very challenging for practioners to determine which method would be suitable to get insights into the structural information of the networks they study. Many recent efforts have been devoted to investigating various quality scores of the community structure, but the problem of distinguishing between different types of communities is still open. In this paper, we propose a comparative, extensive and empirical study to investigate what types of communities many state-of-the-art and well-known community detection methods are producing. Specifically, we provide comprehensive analyses on computation time, community size distribution, a comparative evaluation of methods according to their optimisation schemes as well as a comparison of their partioning strategy through validation metrics. We process our analyses on a very large corpus of hundreds of networks from five different network categories and propose ways to classify community detection methods, helping a potential user to navigate the complex landscape of community detection.

  We apply numerical methods in combination with finite-difference-time-domain (FDTD) simulations to optimize transmission properties of plasmonic mirror color filters using a multi-objective figure of merit over a five-dimensional parameter space by utilizing novel multi-fidelity Gaussian processes approach. We compare these results with conventional derivative-free global search algorithms, such as (single-fidelity) Gaussian Processes optimization scheme, and Particle Swarm Optimization---a commonly used method in nanophotonics community, which is implemented in Lumerical commercial photonics software. We demonstrate the performance of various numerical optimization approaches on several pre-collected real-world datasets and show that by properly trading off expensive information sources with cheap simulations, one can more effectively optimize the transmission properties with a fixed budget.

  A Budgeted Markov Decision Process (BMDP) is an extension of a Markov Decision Process to critical applications requiring safety constraints. It relies on a notion of risk implemented in the shape of a cost signal constrained to lie below an - adjustable - threshold. So far, BMDPs could only be solved in the case of finite state spaces with known dynamics. This work extends the state-of-the-art to continuous spaces environments and unknown dynamics. We show that the solution to a BMDP is a fixed point of a novel Budgeted Bellman Optimality operator. This observation allows us to introduce natural extensions of Deep Reinforcement Learning algorithms to address large-scale BMDPs. We validate our approach on two simulated applications: spoken dialogue and autonomous driving.

  Recovering a dense depth image from sparse LiDAR scans is a challenging task. Despite the popularity of color-guided methods for sparse-to-dense depth completion, they treated pixels equally during optimization, ignoring the uneven distribution characteristics in the sparse depth map and the accumulated outliers in the synthesized ground truth. In this work, we introduce uncertainty-driven loss functions to improve the robustness of depth completion and handle the uncertainty in depth completion. Specifically, we propose an explicit uncertainty formulation for robust depth completion with Jeffrey's prior. A parametric uncertain-driven loss is introduced and translated to new loss functions that are robust to noisy or missing data. Meanwhile, we propose a multiscale joint prediction model that can simultaneously predict depth and uncertainty maps. The estimated uncertainty map is also used to perform adaptive prediction on the pixels with high uncertainty, leading to a residual map for refining the completion results. Our method has been tested on KITTI Depth Completion Benchmark and achieved the state-of-the-art robustness performance in terms of MAE, IMAE, and IRMSE metrics.

  Artificial intelligence (AI) has been applied widely in our daily lives in a variety of ways with numerous success stories. AI has also contributed to dealing with the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic, which has been happening around the globe. This paper presents a survey of AI methods being used in various applications in the fight against the COVID-19 outbreak and outlines the crucial role of AI research in this unprecedented battle. We touch on areas where AI plays as an essential component, from medical image processing, data analytics, text mining and natural language processing, the Internet of Things, to computational biology and medicine. A summary of COVID-19 related data sources that are available for research purposes is also presented. Research directions on exploring the potential of AI and enhancing its capability and power in the pandemic battle are thoroughly discussed. We identify 13 groups of problems related to the COVID-19 pandemic and highlight promising AI methods and tools that can be used to address these problems. It is envisaged that this study will provide AI researchers and the wider community with an overview of the current status of AI applications, and motivate researchers to harness AI's potential in the fight against COVID-19.

  This work considers methods for imposing sparsity in Bayesian regression with applications in nonlinear system identification. We first review automatic relevance determination (ARD) and analytically demonstrate the need to additional regularization or thresholding to achieve sparse models. We then discuss two classes of methods, regularization based and thresholding based, which build on ARD to learn parsimonious solutions to linear problems. In the case of orthogonal covariates, we analytically demonstrate favorable performance with regards to learning a small set of active terms in a linear system with a sparse solution. Several example problems are presented to compare the set of proposed methods in terms of advantages and limitations to ARD in bases with hundreds of elements. The aim of this paper is to analyze and understand the assumptions that lead to several algorithms and to provide theoretical and empirical results so that the reader may gain insight and make more informed choices regarding sparse Bayesian regression.

  Overlap between treatment groups is required for non-parametric estimation of causal effects. If a subgroup of subjects always receives the same intervention, we cannot estimate the effect of intervention changes on that subgroup without further assumptions. When overlap does not hold globally, characterizing local regions of overlap can inform the relevance of causal conclusions for new subjects, and can help guide additional data collection. To have impact, these descriptions must be interpretable for downstream users who are not machine learning experts, such as policy makers. We formalize overlap estimation as a problem of finding minimum volume sets subject to coverage constraints and reduce this problem to binary classification with Boolean rule classifiers. We then generalize this method to estimate overlap in off-policy policy evaluation. In several real-world applications, we demonstrate that these rules have comparable accuracy to black-box estimators and provide intuitive and informative explanations that can inform policy making.

  We present a new active learning algorithm based on nonparametric estimators of the regression function. Our investigation provides probabilistic bounds for the rates of convergence of the generalization error achievable by proposed method over a broad class of underlying distributions. We also prove minimax lower bounds which show that the obtained rates are almost tight.

  Solving high dimensional optimal control problems and corresponding Hamilton-Jacobi PDEs are important but challenging problems in control engineering. In this paper, we propose two abstract neural network architectures which respectively represent the value function and the state feedback characterisation of the optimal control for certain class of high dimensional optimal control problems. We provide the mathematical analysis for the two abstract architectures. We also show several numerical results computed using the deep neural network implementations of these abstract architectures. This work paves the way to leverage efficient dedicated hardware designed for neural networks to solve high dimensional optimal control problems and Hamilton-Jacobi PDEs.

  A large number of inorganic and organic compounds are able to bind DNA and form complexes, among which drug-related molecules are important. Chromatin accessibility changes not only directly affects drug-DNA interactions, but also promote or inhibit the expression of critical genes associated with drug resistance by affecting the DNA binding capacity of TFs and transcriptional regulators. However, Biological experimental techniques for measuring it are expensive and time consuming. In recent years, several kinds of computational methods have been proposed to identify accessible regions of the genome. Existing computational models mostly ignore the contextual information of bases in gene sequences. To address these issues, we proposed a new solution named SemanticCAP. It introduces a gene language model which models the context of gene sequences, thus being able to provide an effective representation of a certain site in gene sequences. Basically, we merge the features provided by the gene language model into our chromatin accessibility model. During the process, we designed some methods to make feature fusion smoother. Compared with other systems under public benchmarks, our model proved to have better performance.

  We study the statistical and computational aspects of kernel principal component analysis using random Fourier features and show that under mild assumptions, $O(\sqrt{n} \log n)$ features suffices to achieve $O(1/\epsilon^2)$ sample complexity. Furthermore, we give a memory efficient streaming algorithm based on classical Oja's algorithm that achieves this rate.

  Most previous works usually explained adversarial examples from several specific perspectives, lacking relatively integral comprehension about this problem. In this paper, we present a systematic study on adversarial examples from three aspects: the amount of training data, task-dependent and model-specific factors. Particularly, we show that adversarial generalization (i.e. test accuracy on adversarial examples) for standard training requires more data than standard generalization (i.e. test accuracy on clean examples); and uncover the global relationship between generalization and robustness with respect to the data size especially when data is augmented by generative models. This reveals the trade-off correlation between standard generalization and robustness in limited training data regime and their consistency when data size is large enough. Furthermore, we explore how different task-dependent and model-specific factors influence the vulnerability of deep neural networks by extensive empirical analysis. Relevant recommendations on defense against adversarial attacks are provided as well. Our results outline a potential path towards the luminous and systematic understanding of adversarial examples.

  Pretrained Transformer-based language models (LMs) display remarkable natural language generation capabilities. With their immense potential, controlling text generation of such LMs is getting attention. While there are studies that seek to control high-level attributes (such as sentiment and topic) of generated text, there is still a lack of more precise control over its content at the word- and phrase-level. Here, we propose Content-Conditioner (CoCon) to control an LM's output text with a content input, at a fine-grained level. In our self-supervised approach, the CoCon block learns to help the LM complete a partially-observed text sequence by conditioning with content inputs that are withheld from the LM. Through experiments, we show that CoCon can naturally incorporate target content into generated texts and control high-level text attributes in a zero-shot manner.

  This paper presents the baseline method proposed for the Sports Video task part of the MediaEval 2021 benchmark. This task proposes a stroke detection and a stroke classification subtasks. This baseline addresses both subtasks. The spatio-temporal CNN architecture and the training process of the model are tailored according to the addressed subtask. The method has the purpose of helping the participants to solve the task and is not meant to reach stateof-the-art performance. Still, for the detection task, the baseline is performing better than the other participants, which stresses the difficulty of such a task.

  In this paper we revisit some of the fundamental premises for a reinforcement learning (RL) approach to self-learning traffic lights. We propose RLight, a combination of choices that offers robust performance and good generalization to unseen traffic flows. In particular, our main contributions are threefold: our lightweight and cluster-aware state representation leads to improved performance; we reformulate the Markov Decision Process (MDP) such that it skips redundant timesteps of yellow light, speeding up learning by 30%; and we investigate the action space and provide insight into the difference in performance between acyclic and cyclic phase transitions. Additionally, we provide insights into the generalisation of the methods to unseen traffic. Evaluations using the real-world Hangzhou traffic dataset show that RLight outperforms state-of-the-art rule-based and deep reinforcement learning algorithms, demonstrating the potential of RL-based methods to improve urban traffic flows.

  Autonomous agents situated in real-world environments must be able to master large repertoires of skills. While a single short skill can be learned quickly, it would be impractical to learn every task independently. Instead, the agent should share knowledge across behaviors such that each task can be learned efficiently, and such that the resulting model can generalize to new tasks, especially ones that are compositions or subsets of tasks seen previously. A policy conditioned on a goal or demonstration has the potential to share knowledge between tasks if it sees enough diversity of inputs. However, these methods may not generalize to a more complex task at test time. We introduce compositional plan vectors (CPVs) to enable a policy to perform compositions of tasks without additional supervision. CPVs represent trajectories as the sum of the subtasks within them. We show that CPVs can be learned within a one-shot imitation learning framework without any additional supervision or information about task hierarchy, and enable a demonstration-conditioned policy to generalize to tasks that sequence twice as many skills as the tasks seen during training.   Analogously to embeddings such as word2vec in NLP, CPVs can also support simple arithmetic operations -- for example, we can add the CPVs for two different tasks to command an agent to compose both tasks, without any additional training.

  Our effort is toward unifying GAN and DRL algorithms into a unifying AI model (AGI or general-purpose AI or artificial general intelligence which has general-purpose applications to: (A) offline learning (of stored data) like GAN in (un/semi-/fully-)SL setting such as big data analytics (mining) and visualization; (B) online learning (of real or simulated devices) like DRL in RL setting (with/out environment reward) such as (real or simulated) robotics and control; Our core proposal is adding an (generative/predictive) environment model to the actor-critic (model-free) architecture which results in a model-based actor-critic architecture with temporal-differencing (TD) error and an episodic memory. The proposed AI model is similar to (model-free) DDPG and therefore it's called model-based DDPG. To evaluate it, we compare it with (model-free) DDPG by applying them both to a variety (wide range) of independent simulated robotic and control task environments in OpenAI Gym and Unity Agents. Our initial limited experiments show that DRL and GAN in model-based actor-critic results in an incremental goal-driven intellignce required to solve each task with similar performance to (model-free) DDPG. Our future focus is to investigate the proposed AI model potential to: (A) unify DRL field inside AI by producing competitive performance compared to the best of model-based (PlaNet) and model-free (D4PG) approaches; (B) bridge the gap between AI and robotics communities by solving the important problem of reward engineering with learning the reward function by demonstration.

  To ensure safety in automated driving, the correct perception of the situation inside the car is as important as its environment. Thus, seat occupancy detection and classification of detected instances play an important role in interior sensing. By the knowledge of the seat occupancy status, it is possible to, e.g., automate the airbag deployment control. Furthermore, the presence of a driver, which is necessary for partially automated driving cars at the automation levels two to four can be verified. In this work, we compare different statistical methods from the field of image segmentation to approach the problem of background-foreground segmentation in camera based interior sensing. In the recent years, several methods based on different techniques have been developed and applied to images or videos from different applications. The peculiarity of the given scenarios of interior sensing is, that the foreground instances and the background both contain static as well as dynamic elements. In data considered in this work, even the camera position is not completely fixed. We review and benchmark three different methods ranging, i.e., Gaussian Mixture Models (GMM), Morphological Snakes and a deep neural network, namely a Mask R-CNN. In particular, the limitations of the classical methods, GMM and Morphological Snakes, for interior sensing are shown. Furthermore, it turns, that it is possible to overcome these limitations by deep learning, e.g.\ using a Mask R-CNN. Although only a small amount of ground truth data was available for training, we enabled the Mask R-CNN to produce high quality background-foreground masks via transfer learning. Moreover, we demonstrate that certain augmentation as well as pre- and post-processing methods further enhance the performance of the investigated methods.

  We present local ensembles, a method for detecting underspecification -- when many possible predictors are consistent with the training data and model class -- at test time in a pre-trained model. Our method uses local second-order information to approximate the variance of predictions across an ensemble of models from the same class. We compute this approximation by estimating the norm of the component of a test point's gradient that aligns with the low-curvature directions of the Hessian, and provide a tractable method for estimating this quantity. Experimentally, we show that our method is capable of detecting when a pre-trained model is underspecified on test data, with applications to out-of-distribution detection, detecting spurious correlates, and active learning.

  To leverage enormous unlabeled data on distributed edge devices, we formulate a new problem in federated learning called Federated Unsupervised Representation Learning (FURL) to learn a common representation model without supervision while preserving data privacy. FURL poses two new challenges: (1) data distribution shift (Non-IID distribution) among clients would make local models focus on different categories, leading to the inconsistency of representation spaces. (2) without the unified information among clients in FURL, the representations across clients would be misaligned. To address these challenges, we propose Federated Constrastive Averaging with dictionary and alignment (FedCA) algorithm. FedCA is composed of two key modules: (1) dictionary module to aggregate the representations of samples from each client and share with all clients for consistency of representation space and (2) alignment module to align the representation of each client on a base model trained on a public data. We adopt the contrastive loss for local model training. Through extensive experiments with three evaluation protocols in IID and Non-IID settings, we demonstrate that FedCA outperforms all baselines with significant margins.

  A learning federation is composed of multiple participants who use the federated learning technique to collaboratively train a machine learning model without directly revealing the local data. Nevertheless, the existing federated learning frameworks have a serious defect that even a participant is revoked, its data are still remembered by the trained model. In a company-level cooperation, allowing the remaining companies to use a trained model that contains the memories from a revoked company is obviously unacceptable, because it can lead to a big conflict of interest. Therefore, we emphatically discuss the participant revocation problem of federated learning and design a revocable federated random forest (RF) framework, RevFRF, to further illustrate the concept of revocable federated learning. In RevFRF, we first define the security problems to be resolved by a revocable federated RF. Then, a suite of homomorphic encryption based secure protocols are designed for federated RF construction, prediction and revocation. Through theoretical analysis and experiments, we show that the protocols can securely and efficiently implement collaborative training of an RF and ensure that the memories of a revoked participant in the trained RF are securely removed.

  Recent advances in learning techniques have enabled the modelling of dynamical systems for scientific and engineering applications directly from data. However, in many contexts explicit data collection is expensive and learning algorithms must be data-efficient to be feasible. This suggests using additional qualitative information about the system, which is often available from prior experiments or domain knowledge. We propose an approach to learning a vector field of differential equations using sparse Gaussian Processes that allows us to combine data and additional structural information, like Lie Group symmetries and fixed points. We show that this combination improves extrapolation performance and long-term behaviour significantly, while also reducing the computational cost.

  A wide range of reinforcement learning (RL) problems - including robustness, transfer learning, unsupervised RL, and emergent complexity - require specifying a distribution of tasks or environments in which a policy will be trained. However, creating a useful distribution of environments is error prone, and takes a significant amount of developer time and effort. We propose Unsupervised Environment Design (UED) as an alternative paradigm, where developers provide environments with unknown parameters, and these parameters are used to automatically produce a distribution over valid, solvable environments. Existing approaches to automatically generating environments suffer from common failure modes: domain randomization cannot generate structure or adapt the difficulty of the environment to the agent's learning progress, and minimax adversarial training leads to worst-case environments that are often unsolvable. To generate structured, solvable environments for our protagonist agent, we introduce a second, antagonist agent that is allied with the environment-generating adversary. The adversary is motivated to generate environments which maximize regret, defined as the difference between the protagonist and antagonist agent's return. We call our technique Protagonist Antagonist Induced Regret Environment Design (PAIRED). Our experiments demonstrate that PAIRED produces a natural curriculum of increasingly complex environments, and PAIRED agents achieve higher zero-shot transfer performance when tested in highly novel environments.

  In the past years, many new explanation methods have been proposed to achieve interpretability of machine learning predictions. However, the utility of these methods in practical applications has not been researched extensively. In this paper we present the results of a human-grounded evaluation of SHAP, an explanation method that has been well-received in the XAI and related communities. In particular, we study whether this local model-agnostic explanation method can be useful for real human domain experts to assess the correctness of positive predictions, i.e. alerts generated by a classifier. We performed experimentation with three different groups of participants (159 in total), who had basic knowledge of explainable machine learning. We performed a qualitative analysis of recorded reflections of experiment participants performing alert processing with and without SHAP information. The results suggest that the SHAP explanations do impact the decision-making process, although the model's confidence score remains to be a leading source of evidence. We statistically test whether there is a significant difference in task utility metrics between tasks for which an explanation was available and tasks in which it was not provided. As opposed to common intuitions, we did not find a significant difference in alert processing performance when a SHAP explanation is available compared to when it is not.

  Deep learning has achieved incredible success over the past years, especially in various challenging predictive spatio-temporal analytics (PSTA) tasks, such as disease prediction, climate forecast, and traffic prediction, where intrinsic dependency relationships among data exist and generally manifest at multiple spatio-temporal scales. However, given a specific PSTA task and the corresponding dataset, how to appropriately determine the desired configuration of a deep learning model, theoretically analyze the model's learning behavior, and quantitatively characterize the model's learning capacity remains a mystery. In order to demystify the power of deep learning for PSTA, in this paper, we provide a comprehensive framework for deep learning model design and information-theoretic analysis. First, we develop and demonstrate a novel interactively- and integratively-connected deep recurrent neural network (I$^2$DRNN) model. I$^2$DRNN consists of three modules: an Input module that integrates data from heterogeneous sources; a Hidden module that captures the information at different scales while allowing the information to flow interactively between layers; and an Output module that models the integrative effects of information from various hidden layers to generate the output predictions. Second, to theoretically prove that our designed model can learn multi-scale spatio-temporal dependency in PSTA tasks, we provide an information-theoretic analysis to examine the information-based learning capacity (i-CAP) of the proposed model. Third, to validate the I$^2$DRNN model and confirm its i-CAP, we systematically conduct a series of experiments involving both synthetic datasets and real-world PSTA tasks. The experimental results show that the I$^2$DRNN model outperforms both classical and state-of-the-art models, and is able to capture meaningful multi-scale spatio-temporal dependency.

  We consider the multi-armed bandit problems in which a player aims to accrue reward by sequentially playing a given set of arms with unknown reward statistics. In the classic work, policies were proposed to achieve the optimal logarithmic regret order for some special classes of light-tailed reward distributions, e.g., Auer et al.'s UCB1 index policy for reward distributions with finite support. In this paper, we extend Auer et al.'s UCB1 index policy to achieve the optimal logarithmic regret order for all light-tailed (or equivalently, locally sub-Gaussian) reward distributions defined by the (local) existence of the moment-generating function.

  Deep neural networks (DNNs) have achieved significant success in a variety of real world applications, i.e., image classification. However, tons of parameters in the networks restrict the efficiency of neural networks due to the large model size and the intensive computation. To address this issue, various approximation techniques have been investigated, which seek for a light weighted network with little performance degradation in exchange of smaller model size or faster inference. Both low-rankness and sparsity are appealing properties for the network approximation. In this paper we propose a unified framework to compress the convolutional neural networks (CNNs) by combining these two properties, while taking the nonlinear activation into consideration. Each layer in the network is approximated by the sum of a structured sparse component and a low-rank component, which is formulated as an optimization problem. Then, an extended version of alternating direction method of multipliers (ADMM) with guaranteed convergence is presented to solve the relaxed optimization problem. Experiments are carried out on VGG-16, AlexNet and GoogLeNet with large image classification datasets. The results outperform previous work in terms of accuracy degradation, compression rate and speedup ratio. The proposed method is able to remarkably compress the model (with up to 4.9x reduction of parameters) at a cost of little loss or without loss on accuracy.

  Data vectors are obtained from multiple domains. They are feature vectors of images or vector representations of words. Domains may have different numbers of data vectors with different dimensions. These data vectors from multiple domains are projected to a common space by linear transformations in order to search closely related vectors across domains. We would like to find projection matrices to minimize distances between closely related data vectors. This formulation of cross-domain matching is regarded as an extension of the spectral graph embedding to multi-domain setting, and it includes several multivariate analysis methods of statistics such as multiset canonical correlation analysis, correspondence analysis, and principal component analysis. Similar approaches are very popular recently in pattern recognition and vision. In this paper, instead of proposing a novel method, we will introduce an embarrassingly simple idea of coding the data vectors for explaining all the above mentioned approaches. A data vector is concatenated with zero vectors from all other domains to make an augmented vector. The cross-domain matching is solved by applying the single-domain version of spectral graph embedding to these augmented vectors of all the domains. An interesting connection to the classical associative memory model of neural networks is also discussed by noticing a coding for association. A cross-validation method for choosing the dimension of the common space and a regularization parameter will be discussed in an illustrative numerical example.

  Temporal difference (TD) learning and its variants, such as multistage TD (MS-TD) learning and temporal coherence (TC) learning, have been successfully applied to 2048. These methods rely on the stochasticity of the environment of 2048 for exploration. In this paper, we propose to employ optimistic initialization (OI) to encourage exploration for 2048, and empirically show that the learning quality is significantly improved. This approach optimistically initializes the feature weights to very large values. Since weights tend to be reduced once the states are visited, agents tend to explore those states which are unvisited or visited few times. Our experiments show that both TD and TC learning with OI significantly improve the performance. As a result, the network size required to achieve the same performance is significantly reduced. With additional tunings such as expectimax search, multistage learning, and tile-downgrading technique, our design achieves the state-of-the-art performance, namely an average score of 625 377 and a rate of 72% reaching 32768 tiles. In addition, for sufficiently large tests, 65536 tiles are reached at a rate of 0.02%.

  Dynamic portfolio optimization is the process of sequentially allocating wealth to a collection of assets in some consecutive trading periods, based on investors' return-risk profile. Automating this process with machine learning remains a challenging problem. Here, we design a deep reinforcement learning (RL) architecture with an autonomous trading agent such that, investment decisions and actions are made periodically, based on a global objective, with autonomy. In particular, without relying on a purely model-free RL agent, we train our trading agent using a novel RL architecture consisting of an infused prediction module (IPM), a generative adversarial data augmentation module (DAM) and a behavior cloning module (BCM). Our model-based approach works with both on-policy or off-policy RL algorithms. We further design the back-testing and execution engine which interact with the RL agent in real time. Using historical {\em real} financial market data, we simulate trading with practical constraints, and demonstrate that our proposed model is robust, profitable and risk-sensitive, as compared to baseline trading strategies and model-free RL agents from prior work.

  Metric learning is a key problem for many data mining and machine learning applications, and has long been dominated by Mahalanobis methods. Recent advances in nonlinear metric learning have demonstrated the potential power of non-Mahalanobis distance functions, particularly tree-based functions. We propose a novel nonlinear metric learning method that uses an iterative, hierarchical variant of semi-supervised max-margin clustering to construct a forest of cluster hierarchies, where each individual hierarchy can be interpreted as a weak metric over the data. By introducing randomness during hierarchy training and combining the output of many of the resulting semi-random weak hierarchy metrics, we can obtain a powerful and robust nonlinear metric model. This method has two primary contributions: first, it is semi-supervised, incorporating information from both constrained and unconstrained points. Second, we take a relaxed approach to constraint satisfaction, allowing the method to satisfy different subsets of the constraints at different levels of the hierarchy rather than attempting to simultaneously satisfy all of them. This leads to a more robust learning algorithm. We compare our method to a number of state-of-the-art benchmarks on $k$-nearest neighbor classification, large-scale image retrieval and semi-supervised clustering problems, and find that our algorithm yields results comparable or superior to the state-of-the-art, and is significantly more robust to noise.

  We present a complimentary objective for training recurrent neural networks (RNN) with gating units that helps with regularization and interpretability of the trained model. Attention-based RNN models have shown success in many difficult sequence to sequence classification problems with long and short term dependencies, however these models are prone to overfitting. In this paper, we describe how to regularize these models through an L1 penalty on the activation of the gating units, and show that this technique reduces overfitting on a variety of tasks while also providing to us a human-interpretable visualization of the inputs used by the network. These tasks include sentiment analysis, paraphrase recognition, and question answering.

  Music classification and tagging is conducted through categorical supervised learning with a fixed set of labels. In principle, this cannot make predictions on unseen labels. Zero-shot learning is an approach to solve the problem by using side information about the semantic labels. We recently investigated this concept of zero-shot learning in music classification and tagging task by projecting both audio and label space on a single semantic space. In this work, we extend the work to verify the generalization ability of zero-shot learning model by conducting knowledge transfer to different music corpora.

  Robots are often required to operate in environments where humans are not present, but yet require the human context information for better human-robot interaction. Even when humans are present in the environment, detecting their presence in cluttered environments could be challenging. As a solution to this problem, this paper presents the concept of spatial affordance map which learns human context by looking at geometric features of the environment. Instead of observing real humans to learn human context, it uses virtual human models and their relationships with the environment to map hidden human affordances in 3D scenes by placing virtual skeleton models in 3D scenes with their confidence values. The spatial affordance map learning problem is formulated as a multi-label classification problem that can be learned using Support Vector Machine (SVM) based learners. Experiments carried out in a real 3D scene dataset recorded promising results and proved the applicability of affordance-map for mapping human context.

  As an emerging field, Automated Machine Learning (AutoML) aims to reduce or eliminate manual operations that require expertise in machine learning. In this paper, a graph-based architecture is employed to represent flexible combinations of ML models, which provides a large searching space compared to tree-based and stacking-based architectures. Based on this, an evolutionary algorithm is proposed to search for the best architecture, where the mutation and heredity operators are the key for architecture evolution. With Bayesian hyper-parameter optimization, the proposed approach can automate the workflow of machine learning. On the PMLB dataset, the proposed approach shows the state-of-the-art performance compared with TPOT, Autostacker, and auto-sklearn. Some of the optimized models are with complex structures which are difficult to obtain in manual design.

  We propose a cumulative oversampling (CO) method for online learning. Our key idea is to sample parameter estimations from the updated belief space once in each round (similar to Thompson Sampling), and utilize the cumulative samples up to the current round to construct optimistic parameter estimations that asymptotically concentrate around the true parameters as tighter upper confidence bounds compared to the ones constructed with standard UCB methods. We apply CO to a novel budgeted variant of the Influence Maximization (IM) semi-bandits with linear generalization of edge weights, whose offline problem is NP-hard. Combining CO with the oracle we design for the offline problem, our online learning algorithm simultaneously tackles budget allocation, parameter learning, and reward maximization. We show that for IM semi-bandits, our CO-based algorithm achieves a scaled regret comparable to that of the UCB-based algorithms in theory, and performs on par with Thompson Sampling in numerical experiments.

  In multi-speaker applications is common to have pre-computed models from enrolled speakers. Using these models to identify the instances in which these speakers intervene in a recording is the task of speaker tracking. In this paper, we propose a novel embedding-based speaker tracking method. Specifically, our design is based on a convolutional neural network that mimics a typical speaker verification PLDA (probabilistic linear discriminant analysis) classifier and finds the regions uttered by the target speakers in an online fashion. The system was studied from two different perspectives: diarization and tracking; results on both show a significant improvement over the PLDA baseline under the same experimental conditions. Two standard public datasets, CALLHOME and DIHARD II single channel, were modified to create two-speaker subsets with overlapping and non-overlapping regions. We evaluate the robustness of our supervised approach with models generated from different segment lengths. A relative improvement of 17% in DER for DIHARD II single channel shows promising performance. Furthermore, to make the baseline system similar to speaker tracking, non-target speakers were added to the recordings. Even in these adverse conditions, our approach is robust enough to outperform the PLDA baseline.

We study the generalisation properties of majority voting on finite ensembles of classifiers, proving margin-based generalisation bounds via the PAC-Bayes theory. These provide state-of-the-art guarantees on a number of classification tasks. Our central results leverage the Dirichlet posteriors studied recently by Zantedeschi et al. [2021] for training voting classifiers; in contrast to that work our bounds apply to non-randomised votes via the use of margins. Our contributions add perspective to the debate on the "margins theory" proposed by Schapire et al. [1998] for the generalisation of ensemble classifiers.

  We study the problem of performing classification in a manner that is fair for sensitive groups, such as race and gender. This problem is tackled through the lens of disentangled and locally fair representations. We learn a locally fair representation, such that, under the learned representation, the neighborhood of each sample is balanced in terms of the sensitive attribute. For instance, when a decision is made to hire an individual, we ensure that the $K$ most similar hired individuals are racially balanced. Crucially, we ensure that similar individuals are found based on attributes not correlated to their race. To this end, we disentangle the embedding space into two representations. The first of which is correlated with the sensitive attribute while the second is not. We apply our local fairness objective only to the second, uncorrelated, representation. Through a set of experiments, we demonstrate the necessity of both disentangled and local fairness for obtaining fair and accurate representations. We evaluate our method on real-world settings such as predicting income and re-incarceration rate and demonstrate the advantage of our method.

  We introduce a simple framework for designing private boosting algorithms. We give natural conditions under which these algorithms are differentially private, efficient, and noise-tolerant PAC learners. To demonstrate our framework, we use it to construct noise-tolerant and private PAC learners for large-margin halfspaces whose sample complexity does not depend on the dimension.   We give two sample complexity bounds for our large-margin halfspace learner. One bound is based only on differential privacy, and uses this guarantee as an asset for ensuring generalization. This first bound illustrates a general methodology for obtaining PAC learners from privacy, which may be of independent interest. The second bound uses standard techniques from the theory of large-margin classification (the fat-shattering dimension) to match the best known sample complexity for differentially private learning of large-margin halfspaces, while additionally tolerating random label noise.

  This paper presents an efficient implementation of the Wavenet generation process called Fast Wavenet. Compared to a naive implementation that has complexity O(2^L) (L denotes the number of layers in the network), our proposed approach removes redundant convolution operations by caching previous calculations, thereby reducing the complexity to O(L) time. Timing experiments show significant advantages of our fast implementation over a naive one. While this method is presented for Wavenet, the same scheme can be applied anytime one wants to perform autoregressive generation or online prediction using a model with dilated convolution layers. The code for our method is publicly available.

  Regularized approaches have been successfully applied to linear system identification in recent years. Many of them model unknown impulse responses exploiting the so called Reproducing Kernel Hilbert spaces (RKHSs) that enjoy the notable property of being in one-to-one correspondence with the class of positive semidefinite kernels. The necessary and sufficient condition for a RKHS to be stable, i.e. to contain only BIBO stable linear dynamic systems, has been known in the literature at least since 2006. However, an open question still persists and concerns the equivalence of such condition with the absolute summability of the kernel. This paper provides a definite answer to this matter by proving that such correspondence does not hold. A counterexample is introduced that illustrates the existence of stable RKHSs that are induced by non-absolutely summable kernels.

  Cross-domain few-shot classification task (CD-FSC) combines few-shot classification with the requirement to generalize across domains represented by datasets. This setup faces challenges originating from the limited labeled data in each class and, additionally, from the domain shift between training and test sets. In this paper, we introduce a novel training approach for existing FSC models. It leverages on the explanation scores, obtained from existing explanation methods when applied to the predictions of FSC models, computed for intermediate feature maps of the models. Firstly, we tailor the layer-wise relevance propagation (LRP) method to explain the predictions of FSC models. Secondly, we develop a model-agnostic explanation-guided training strategy that dynamically finds and emphasizes the features which are important for the predictions. Our contribution does not target a novel explanation method but lies in a novel application of explanations for the training phase. We show that explanation-guided training effectively improves the model generalization. We observe improved accuracy for three different FSC models: RelationNet, cross attention network, and a graph neural network-based formulation, on five few-shot learning datasets: miniImagenet, CUB, Cars, Places, and Plantae. The source code is available at https://github.com/SunJiamei/few-shot-lrp-guided

Aligning parallel sentences in multilingual corpora is essential to curating data for downstream applications such as Machine Translation. In this work, we present OneAligner, an alignment model specially designed for sentence retrieval tasks. This model is able to train on only one language pair and transfers, in a cross-lingual fashion, to low-resource language pairs with negligible degradation in performance. When trained with all language pairs of a large-scale parallel multilingual corpus (OPUS-100), this model achieves the state-of-the-art result on the Tateoba dataset, outperforming an equally-sized previous model by 8.0 points in accuracy while using less than 0.6% of their parallel data. When finetuned on a single rich-resource language pair, be it English-centered or not, our model is able to match the performance of the ones finetuned on all language pairs under the same data budget with less than 2.0 points decrease in accuracy. Furthermore, with the same setup, scaling up the number of rich-resource language pairs monotonically improves the performance, reaching a minimum of 0.4 points discrepancy in accuracy, making it less mandatory to collect any low-resource parallel data. Finally, we conclude through empirical results and analyses that the performance of the sentence alignment task depends mostly on the monolingual and parallel data size, up to a certain size threshold, rather than on what language pairs are used for training or evaluation.

  It is an innate ability for humans to imagine something only according to their impression, without having to memorize all the details of what they have seen. In this work, we would like to demonstrate that a trained convolutional neural network also has the capability to "remember" its input images. To achieve this, we propose a simple but powerful framework to establish an {\emph{Impression Space}} upon an off-the-shelf pretrained network. This network is referred to as the {\emph{Template Network}} because its filters will be used as templates to reconstruct images from the impression. In our framework, the impression space and image space are bridged by a layer-wise encoding and iterative decoding process. It turns out that the impression space indeed captures the salient features from images, and it can be directly applied to tasks such as unpaired image translation and image synthesis through impression matching without further network training. Furthermore, the impression naturally constructs a high-level common space for different data. Based on this, we propose a mechanism to model the data relations inside the impression space, which is able to reveal the feature similarity between images. Our code will be released.

  Tucker decomposition is the cornerstone of modern machine learning on tensorial data analysis, which have attracted considerable attention for multiway feature extraction, compressive sensing, and tensor completion. The most challenging problem is related to determination of model complexity (i.e., multilinear rank), especially when noise and missing data are present. In addition, existing methods cannot take into account uncertainty information of latent factors, resulting in low generalization performance. To address these issues, we present a class of probabilistic generative Tucker models for tensor decomposition and completion with structural sparsity over multilinear latent space. To exploit structural sparse modeling, we introduce two group sparsity inducing priors by hierarchial representation of Laplace and Student-t distributions, which facilitates fully posterior inference. For model learning, we derived variational Bayesian inferences over all model (hyper)parameters, and developed efficient and scalable algorithms based on multilinear operations. Our methods can automatically adapt model complexity and infer an optimal multilinear rank by the principle of maximum lower bound of model evidence. Experimental results and comparisons on synthetic, chemometrics and neuroimaging data demonstrate remarkable performance of our models for recovering ground-truth of multilinear rank and missing entries.

  Modern Internet of Things solutions are used in a variety of different areas, ranging from connected vehicles and healthcare to industrial applications. They rely on a large amount of interconnected sensors, which can lead to both technical and economical challenges. Virtual sensing techniques aim to reduce the number of physical sensors in a system by using data from available measurements to estimate additional unknown quantities of interest. Successful model-based solutions include Kalman filters or the combination of finite element models and modal analysis, while many data-driven methods rely on machine learning algorithms. The presented hybrid virtual sensing approach combines Long Short-Term Memory networks with frequency response function models in order to estimate the behavior of non-linear dynamic systems with multiple input and output channels. Network training and prediction make use of short signal subsequences, which are later recombined by applying a windowing technique. The frequency response function model acts as a baseline estimate which perfectly captures linear dynamic systems and is augmented by the non-linear Long Short-Term Memory network following two different hybrid modeling strategies. The approach is tested using a non-linear experimental dataset, which results from measurements of a three-component servo-hydraulic fatigue test bench. A variety of metrics in time and frequency domains, as well as fatigue strength under variable amplitudes are used to evaluate the approximation quality of the proposed method. In addition to virtual sensing, the algorithm is also applied to a forward prediction task. Synthetic data are used in a separate study to estimate the prediction quality on datasets of different size.

  Whose labels should a machine learning (ML) algorithm learn to emulate? For ML tasks ranging from online comment toxicity to misinformation detection to medical diagnosis, different groups in society may have irreconcilable disagreements about ground truth labels. Supervised ML today resolves these label disagreements implicitly using majority vote, which overrides minority groups' labels. We introduce jury learning, a supervised ML approach that resolves these disagreements explicitly through the metaphor of a jury: defining which people or groups, in what proportion, determine the classifier's prediction. For example, a jury learning model for online toxicity might centrally feature women and Black jurors, who are commonly targets of online harassment. To enable jury learning, we contribute a deep learning architecture that models every annotator in a dataset, samples from annotators' models to populate the jury, then runs inference to classify. Our architecture enables juries that dynamically adapt their composition, explore counterfactuals, and visualize dissent.

  Safe reinforcement learning (RL) is still very challenging since it requires the agent to consider both return maximization and safe exploration. In this paper, we propose CUP, a Conservative Update Policy algorithm with a theoretical safety guarantee. We derive the CUP based on the new proposed performance bounds and surrogate functions. Although using bounds as surrogate functions to design safe RL algorithms have appeared in some existing works, we develop them at least three aspects: (i) We provide a rigorous theoretical analysis to extend the surrogate functions to generalized advantage estimator (GAE). GAE significantly reduces variance empirically while maintaining a tolerable level of bias, which is an efficient step for us to design CUP; (ii) The proposed bounds are tighter than existing works, i.e., using the proposed bounds as surrogate functions are better local approximations to the objective and safety constraints. (iii) The proposed CUP provides a non-convex implementation via first-order optimizers, which does not depend on any convex approximation. Finally, extensive experiments show the effectiveness of CUP where the agent satisfies safe constraints. We have opened the source code of CUP at https://github.com/RL-boxes/Safe-RL.

  Induction benefits from useful priors. Penalized regression approaches, like ridge regression, shrink weights toward zero but zero association is usually not a sensible prior. Inspired by simple and robust decision heuristics humans use, we constructed non-zero priors for penalized regression models that provide robust and interpretable solutions across several tasks. Our approach enables estimates from a constrained model to serve as a prior for a more general model, yielding a principled way to interpolate between models of differing complexity. We successfully applied this approach to a number of decision and classification problems, as well as analyzing simulated brain imaging data. Models with robust priors had excellent worst-case performance. Solutions followed from the form of the heuristic that was used to derive the prior. These new algorithms can serve applications in data analysis and machine learning, as well as help in understanding how people transition from novice to expert performance.

  Recent work in scalable approximate Gaussian process regression has discussed a bias-variance-computation trade-off when estimating the log marginal likelihood. We suggest a method that adaptively selects the amount of computation to use when estimating the log marginal likelihood so that the bias of the objective function is guaranteed to be small. While simple in principle, our current implementation of the method is not competitive computationally with existing approximations.

  Recent deep reinforcement learning (DRL) successes rely on end-to-end learning from fixed-size observational inputs (e.g. image, state-variables). However, many challenging and interesting problems in decision making involve observations or intermediary representations which are best described as a set of entities: either the image-based approach would miss small but important details in the observations (e.g. ojects on a radar, vehicles on satellite images, etc.), the number of sensed objects is not fixed (e.g. robotic manipulation), or the problem simply cannot be represented in a meaningful way as an image (e.g. power grid control, or logistics). This type of structured representations is not directly compatible with current DRL architectures, however, there has been an increase in machine learning techniques directly targeting structured information, potentially addressing this issue. We propose to combine recent advances in set representations with slot attention and graph neural networks to process structured data, broadening the range of applications of DRL algorithms. This approach allows to address entity-based problems in an efficient and scalable way. We show that it can improve training time and robustness significantly, and demonstrate their potential to handle structured as well as purely visual domains, on multiple environments from the Atari Learning Environment and Simple Playgrounds.

  We study adaptive (or online) nonlinear regression with Long-Short-Term-Memory (LSTM) based networks, i.e., LSTM-based adaptive learning. In this context, we introduce an efficient Extended Kalman filter (EKF) based second-order training algorithm. Our algorithm is truly online, i.e., it does not assume any underlying data generating process and future information, except that the target sequence is bounded. Through an extensive set of experiments, we demonstrate significant performance gains achieved by our algorithm with respect to the state-of-the-art methods. Here, we mainly show that our algorithm consistently provides 10 to 45\% improvement in the accuracy compared to the widely-used adaptive methods Adam, RMSprop, and DEKF, and comparable performance to EKF with a 10 to 15 times reduction in the run-time.

  Recurrent neural network(RNN) has been broadly applied to natural language processing(NLP) problems. This kind of neural network is designed for modeling sequential data and has been testified to be quite efficient in sequential tagging tasks. In this paper, we propose to use bi-directional RNN with long short-term memory(LSTM) units for Chinese word segmentation, which is a crucial preprocess task for modeling Chinese sentences and articles. Classical methods focus on designing and combining hand-craft features from context, whereas bi-directional LSTM network(BLSTM) does not need any prior knowledge or pre-designing, and it is expert in keeping the contextual information in both directions. Experiment result shows that our approach gets state-of-the-art performance in word segmentation on both traditional Chinese datasets and simplified Chinese datasets.

  COVID-19 pandemic has spread rapidly and caused a shortage of global medical resources. The efficiency of COVID-19 diagnosis has become highly significant. As deep learning and convolutional neural network (CNN) has been widely utilized and been verified in analyzing medical images, it has become a powerful tool for computer-assisted diagnosis. However, there are two most significant challenges in medical image classification with the help of deep learning and neural networks, one of them is the difficulty of acquiring enough samples, which may lead to model overfitting. Privacy concerns mainly bring the other challenge since medical-related records are often deemed patients' private information and protected by laws such as GDPR and HIPPA. Federated learning can ensure the model training is decentralized on different devices and no data is shared among them, which guarantees privacy. However, with data located on different devices, the accessible data of each device could be limited. Since transfer learning has been verified in dealing with limited data with good performance, therefore, in this paper, We made a trial to implement federated learning and transfer learning techniques using CNNs to classify COVID-19 using lung CT scans. We also explored the impact of dataset distribution at the client-side in federated learning and the number of training epochs a model is trained. Finally, we obtained very high performance with federated learning, demonstrating our success in leveraging accuracy and privacy.

Spatial-temporal data contains rich information and has been widely studied in recent years due to the rapid development of relevant applications in many fields. For instance, medical institutions often use electrodes attached to different parts of a patient to analyse the electorencephal data rich with spatial and temporal features for health assessment and disease diagnosis. Existing research has mainly used deep learning techniques such as convolutional neural network (CNN) or recurrent neural network (RNN) to extract hidden spatial-temporal features. Yet, it is challenging to incorporate both inter-dependencies spatial information and dynamic temporal changes simultaneously. In reality, for a model that leverages these spatial-temporal features to fulfil complex prediction tasks, it often requires a colossal amount of training data in order to obtain satisfactory model performance. Considering the above-mentioned challenges, we propose an adaptive federated relevance framework, namely FedRel, for spatial-temporal graph learning in this paper. After transforming the raw spatial-temporal data into high quality features, the core Dynamic Inter-Intra Graph (DIIG) module in the framework is able to use these features to generate the spatial-temporal graphs capable of capturing the hidden topological and long-term temporal correlation information in these graphs. To improve the model generalization ability and performance while preserving the local data privacy, we also design a relevance-driven federated learning module in our framework to leverage diverse data distributions from different participants with attentive aggregations of their models.

  We propose a new PAC-Bayesian bound and a way of constructing a hypothesis space, so that the bound is convex in the posterior distribution and also convex in a trade-off parameter between empirical performance of the posterior distribution and its complexity. The complexity is measured by the Kullback-Leibler divergence to a prior. We derive an alternating procedure for minimizing the bound. We show that the bound can be rewritten as a one-dimensional function of the trade-off parameter and provide sufficient conditions under which the function has a single global minimum. When the conditions are satisfied the alternating minimization is guaranteed to converge to the global minimum of the bound. We provide experimental results demonstrating that rigorous minimization of the bound is competitive with cross-validation in tuning the trade-off between complexity and empirical performance. In all our experiments the trade-off turned to be quasiconvex even when the sufficient conditions were violated.

  Language planning aims to implement complex high-level goals by decomposition into sequential simpler low-level steps. Such procedural reasoning ability is essential for applications such as household robots and virtual assistants. Although language planning is a basic skill set for humans in daily life, it remains a challenge for large language models (LLMs) that lack deep-level commonsense knowledge in the real world. Previous methods require either manual exemplars or annotated programs to acquire such ability from LLMs. In contrast, this paper proposes Neuro-Symbolic Causal Language Planner (CLAP) that elicits procedural knowledge from the LLMs with commonsense-infused prompting. Pre-trained knowledge in LLMs is essentially an unobserved confounder that causes spurious correlations between tasks and action plans. Through the lens of a Structural Causal Model (SCM), we propose an effective strategy in CLAP to construct prompts as a causal intervention toward our SCM. Using graph sampling techniques and symbolic program executors, our strategy formalizes the structured causal prompts from commonsense knowledge bases. CLAP obtains state-of-the-art performance on WikiHow and RobotHow, achieving a relative improvement of 5.28% in human evaluations under the counterfactual setting. This indicates the superiority of CLAP in causal language planning semantically and sequentially.

  The outbreak of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) recently has affected human life to a great extent. Besides direct physical and economic threats, the pandemic also indirectly impact people's mental health conditions, which can be overwhelming but difficult to measure. The problem may come from various reasons such as unemployment status, stay-at-home policy, fear for the virus, and so forth. In this work, we focus on applying natural language processing (NLP) techniques to analyze tweets in terms of mental health. We trained deep models that classify each tweet into the following emotions: anger, anticipation, disgust, fear, joy, sadness, surprise and trust. We build the EmoCT (Emotion-Covid19-Tweet) dataset for the training purpose by manually labeling 1,000 English tweets. Furthermore, we propose and compare two methods to find out the reasons that are causing sadness and fear.

  An open secret in contemporary machine learning is that many models work beautifully on standard benchmarks but fail to generalize outside the lab. This has been attributed to biased training data, which provide poor coverage over real world events. Generative models are no exception, but recent advances in generative adversarial networks (GANs) suggest otherwise - these models can now synthesize strikingly realistic and diverse images. Is generative modeling of photos a solved problem? We show that although current GANs can fit standard datasets very well, they still fall short of being comprehensive models of the visual manifold. In particular, we study their ability to fit simple transformations such as camera movements and color changes. We find that the models reflect the biases of the datasets on which they are trained (e.g., centered objects), but that they also exhibit some capacity for generalization: by "steering" in latent space, we can shift the distribution while still creating realistic images. We hypothesize that the degree of distributional shift is related to the breadth of the training data distribution. Thus, we conduct experiments to quantify the limits of GAN transformations and introduce techniques to mitigate the problem. Code is released on our project page: https://ali-design.github.io/gan_steerability/

  A restricted Boltzmann machine (RBM) is a generative neural-network model with many novel applications such as collaborative filtering and acoustic modeling. An RBM lacks the capacity to retain memory, making it inappropriate for dynamic data modeling as in time-series analysis. In this paper we address this issue by proposing the p-RBM model, a generalization of the regular RBM model, capable of retaining memory of p past states. We further show how to train the p-RBM model using contrastive divergence and test our model on the problem of predicting the stock market direction considering 100 stocks of the NASDAQ-100 index. Obtained results show that the p-RBM offer promising prediction potential.

  k-medoids algorithm is a partitional, centroid-based clustering algorithm which uses pairwise distances of data points and tries to directly decompose the dataset with $n$ points into a set of $k$ disjoint clusters. However, k-medoids itself requires all distances between data points that are not so easy to get in many applications. In this paper, we introduce a new method which requires only a small proportion of the whole set of distances and makes an effort to estimate an upper-bound for unknown distances using the inquired ones. This algorithm makes use of the triangle inequality to calculate an upper-bound estimation of the unknown distances. Our method is built upon a recursive approach to cluster objects and to choose some points actively from each bunch of data and acquire the distances between these prominent points from oracle. Experimental results show that the proposed method using only a small subset of the distances can find proper clustering on many real-world and synthetic datasets.

  Diffusion models learn to restore noisy data, which is corrupted with different levels of noise, by optimizing the weighted sum of the corresponding loss terms, i.e., denoising score matching loss. In this paper, we show that restoring data corrupted with certain noise levels offers a proper pretext task for the model to learn rich visual concepts. We propose to prioritize such noise levels over other levels during training, by redesigning the weighting scheme of the objective function. We show that our simple redesign of the weighting scheme significantly improves the performance of diffusion models regardless of the datasets, architectures, and sampling strategies.

  This paper explores a new framework for lossy image encryption and decryption using a simple shallow encoder neural network E for encryption, and a complex deep decoder neural network D for decryption. E is kept simple so that encoding can be done on low power and portable devices and can in principle be any nonlinear function which outputs an encoded vector. D is trained to decode the encodings using the dataset of image - encoded vector pairs obtained from E and happens independently of E. As the encodings come from E which while being a simple neural network, still has thousands of random parameters and therefore the encodings would be practically impossible to crack without D. This approach differs from autoencoders as D is trained completely independently of E, although the structure may seem similar. Therefore, this paper also explores empirically if a deep neural network can learn to reconstruct the original data in any useful form given the output of a neural network or any other nonlinear function, which can have very useful applications in Cryptanalysis. Experiments demonstrate the potential of the framework through qualitative and quantitative evaluation of the decoded images from D along with some limitations.

Debiased machine learning (DML) offers an attractive way to estimate treatment effects in observational settings, where identification of causal parameters requires a conditional independence or unconfoundedness assumption, since it allows to control flexibly for a potentially very large number of covariates. This paper gives novel finite-sample guarantees for joint inference on high-dimensional DML, bounding how far the finite-sample distribution of the estimator is from its asymptotic Gaussian approximation. These guarantees are useful to applied researchers, as they are informative about how far off the coverage of joint confidence bands can be from the nominal level. There are many settings where high-dimensional causal parameters may be of interest, such as the ATE of many treatment profiles, or the ATE of a treatment on many outcomes. We also cover infinite-dimensional parameters, such as impacts on the entire marginal distribution of potential outcomes. The finite-sample guarantees in this paper complement the existing results on consistency and asymptotic normality of DML estimators, which are either asymptotic or treat only the one-dimensional case.

  We propose a new method, named isolation Mondrian forest (iMondrian forest), for batch and online anomaly detection. The proposed method is a novel hybrid of isolation forest and Mondrian forest which are existing methods for batch anomaly detection and online random forest, respectively. iMondrian forest takes the idea of isolation, using the depth of a node in a tree, and implements it in the Mondrian forest structure. The result is a new data structure which can accept streaming data in an online manner while being used for anomaly detection. Our experiments show that iMondrian forest mostly performs better than isolation forest in batch settings and has better or comparable performance against other batch and online anomaly detection methods.

  Deep neural networks are highly expressive models that have recently achieved state of the art performance on speech and visual recognition tasks. While their expressiveness is the reason they succeed, it also causes them to learn uninterpretable solutions that could have counter-intuitive properties. In this paper we report two such properties.   First, we find that there is no distinction between individual high level units and random linear combinations of high level units, according to various methods of unit analysis. It suggests that it is the space, rather than the individual units, that contains of the semantic information in the high layers of neural networks.   Second, we find that deep neural networks learn input-output mappings that are fairly discontinuous to a significant extend. We can cause the network to misclassify an image by applying a certain imperceptible perturbation, which is found by maximizing the network's prediction error. In addition, the specific nature of these perturbations is not a random artifact of learning: the same perturbation can cause a different network, that was trained on a different subset of the dataset, to misclassify the same input.

  In this paper, we study the problem of publishing a stream of real-valued data satisfying differential privacy (DP). One major challenge is that the maximal possible value can be quite large; thus it is necessary to estimate a threshold so that numbers above it are truncated to reduce the amount of noise that is required to all the data. The estimation must be done based on the data in a private fashion. We develop such a method that uses the Exponential Mechanism with a quality function that approximates well the utility goal while maintaining a low sensitivity. Given the threshold, we then propose a novel online hierarchical method and several post-processing techniques.   Building on these ideas, we formalize the steps into a framework for private publishing of stream data. Our framework consists of three components: a threshold optimizer that privately estimates the threshold, a perturber that adds calibrated noises to the stream, and a smoother that improves the result using post-processing. Within our framework, we design an algorithm satisfying the more stringent setting of DP called local DP (LDP). To our knowledge, this is the first LDP algorithm for publishing streaming data. Using four real-world datasets, we demonstrate that our mechanism outperforms the state-of-the-art by a factor of 6-10 orders of magnitude in terms of utility (measured by the mean squared error of answering a random range query).

  Deep generative models (DGMs) are effective on learning multilayered representations of complex data and performing inference of input data by exploring the generative ability. However, little work has been done on examining or empowering the discriminative ability of DGMs on making accurate predictions. This paper presents max-margin deep generative models (mmDGMs), which explore the strongly discriminative principle of max-margin learning to improve the discriminative power of DGMs, while retaining the generative capability. We develop an efficient doubly stochastic subgradient algorithm for the piecewise linear objective. Empirical results on MNIST and SVHN datasets demonstrate that (1) max-margin learning can significantly improve the prediction performance of DGMs and meanwhile retain the generative ability; and (2) mmDGMs are competitive to the state-of-the-art fully discriminative networks by employing deep convolutional neural networks (CNNs) as both recognition and generative models.

  Accelerometer measurements are the prime type of sensor information most think of when seeking to measure physical activity. On the market, there are many fitness measuring devices which aim to track calories burned and steps counted through the use of accelerometers. These measurements, though good enough for the average consumer, are noisy and unreliable in terms of the precision of measurement needed in a scientific setting. The contribution of this paper is an innovative and highly accurate regression method which uses an intermediary two-stage classification step to better direct the regression of energy expenditure values from accelerometer counts.   We show that through an additional unsupervised layer of intermediate feature construction, we can leverage latent patterns within accelerometer counts to provide better grounds for activity classification than expert-constructed timeseries features. For this, our approach utilizes a mathematical model originating in natural language processing, the bag-of-words model, that has in the past years been appearing in diverse disciplines outside of the natural language processing field such as image processing. Further emphasizing the natural language connection to stochastics, we use a gaussian mixture model to learn the dictionary upon which the bag-of-words model is built. Moreover, we show that with the addition of these features, we're able to improve regression root mean-squared error of energy expenditure by approximately 1.4 units over existing state-of-the-art methods.

  Multi-agent reinforcement learning (MARL) provides an efficient way for simultaneously learning policies for multiple agents interacting with each other. However, in scenarios requiring complex interactions, existing algorithms can suffer from an inability to accurately anticipate the influence of self-actions on other agents. Incorporating an ability to reason about other agents' potential responses can allow an agent to formulate more effective strategies. This paper adopts a recursive reasoning model in a centralized-training-decentralized-execution framework to help learning agents better cooperate with or compete against others. The proposed algorithm, referred to as the Recursive Reasoning Graph (R2G), shows state-of-the-art performance on multiple multi-agent particle and robotics games.

  Interpretability methods for image classification assess model trustworthiness by attempting to expose whether the model is systematically biased or attending to the same cues as a human would. Saliency methods for feature attribution dominate the interpretability literature, but these methods do not address semantic concepts such as the textures, colors, or genders of objects within an image. Our proposed Robust Concept Activation Vectors (RCAV) quantifies the effects of semantic concepts on individual model predictions and on model behavior as a whole. RCAV calculates a concept gradient and takes a gradient ascent step to assess model sensitivity to the given concept. By generalizing previous work on concept activation vectors to account for model non-linearity, and by introducing stricter hypothesis testing, we show that RCAV yields interpretations which are both more accurate at the image level and robust at the dataset level. RCAV, like saliency methods, supports the interpretation of individual predictions. To evaluate the practical use of interpretability methods as debugging tools, and the scientific use of interpretability methods for identifying inductive biases (e.g. texture over shape), we construct two datasets and accompanying metrics for realistic benchmarking of semantic interpretability methods. Our benchmarks expose the importance of counterfactual augmentation and negative controls for quantifying the practical usability of interpretability methods.

  Random graph matching refers to recovering the underlying vertex correspondence between two random graphs with correlated edges; a prominent example is when the two random graphs are given by Erd\H{o}s-R\'{e}nyi graphs $G(n,\frac{d}{n})$. This can be viewed as an average-case and noisy version of the graph isomorphism problem. Under this model, the maximum likelihood estimator is equivalent to solving the intractable quadratic assignment problem. This work develops an $\tilde{O}(n d^2+n^2)$-time algorithm which perfectly recovers the true vertex correspondence with high probability, provided that the average degree is at least $d = \Omega(\log^2 n)$ and the two graphs differ by at most $\delta = O( \log^{-2}(n) )$ fraction of edges. For dense graphs and sparse graphs, this can be improved to $\delta = O( \log^{-2/3}(n) )$ and $\delta = O( \log^{-2}(d) )$ respectively, both in polynomial time. The methodology is based on appropriately chosen distance statistics of the degree profiles (empirical distribution of the degrees of neighbors). Before this work, the best known result achieves $\delta=O(1)$ and $n^{o(1)} \leq d \leq n^c$ for some constant $c$ with an $n^{O(\log n)}$-time algorithm \cite{barak2018nearly} and $\delta=\tilde O((d/n)^4)$ and $d = \tilde{\Omega}(n^{4/5})$ with a polynomial-time algorithm \cite{dai2018performance}.

  We propose a simplified model of attention which is applicable to feed-forward neural networks and demonstrate that the resulting model can solve the synthetic "addition" and "multiplication" long-term memory problems for sequence lengths which are both longer and more widely varying than the best published results for these tasks.

  This paper considers networks where relationships between nodes are represented by directed dissimilarities. The goal is to study methods that, based on the dissimilarity structure, output hierarchical clusters, i.e., a family of nested partitions indexed by a connectivity parameter. Our construction of hierarchical clustering methods is built around the concept of admissible methods, which are those that abide by the axioms of value - nodes in a network with two nodes are clustered together at the maximum of the two dissimilarities between them - and transformation - when dissimilarities are reduced, the network may become more clustered but not less. Two particular methods, termed reciprocal and nonreciprocal clustering, are shown to provide upper and lower bounds in the space of admissible methods. Furthermore, alternative clustering methodologies and axioms are considered. In particular, modifying the axiom of value such that clustering in two-node networks occurs at the minimum of the two dissimilarities entails the existence of a unique admissible clustering method.

  Saving rainforests is a key to halting adverse climate changes. In this paper, we introduce an innovative solution built on acoustic surveillance and machine learning technologies to help rainforest conservation. In particular, We propose new convolutional neural network (CNN) models for environmental sound classification and achieved promising preliminary results on two datasets, including a public audio dataset and our real rainforest sound dataset. The proposed audio classification models can be easily extended in an automated machine learning paradigm and integrated in cloud-based services for real world deployment.

  In view of training increasingly complex learning architectures, we establish a nonsmooth implicit function theorem with an operational calculus. Our result applies to most practical problems (i.e., definable problems) provided that a nonsmooth form of the classical invertibility condition is fulfilled. This approach allows for formal subdifferentiation: for instance, replacing derivatives by Clarke Jacobians in the usual differentiation formulas is fully justified for a wide class of nonsmooth problems. Moreover this calculus is entirely compatible with algorithmic differentiation (e.g., backpropagation). We provide several applications such as training deep equilibrium networks, training neural nets with conic optimization layers, or hyperparameter-tuning for nonsmooth Lasso-type models. To show the sharpness of our assumptions, we present numerical experiments showcasing the extremely pathological gradient dynamics one can encounter when applying implicit algorithmic differentiation without any hypothesis.

  We define deep kernel processes in which positive definite Gram matrices are progressively transformed by nonlinear kernel functions and by sampling from (inverse) Wishart distributions. Remarkably, we find that deep Gaussian processes (DGPs), Bayesian neural networks (BNNs), infinite BNNs, and infinite BNNs with bottlenecks can all be written as deep kernel processes. For DGPs the equivalence arises because the Gram matrix formed by the inner product of features is Wishart distributed, and as we show, standard isotropic kernels can be written entirely in terms of this Gram matrix -- we do not need knowledge of the underlying features. We define a tractable deep kernel process, the deep inverse Wishart process, and give a doubly-stochastic inducing-point variational inference scheme that operates on the Gram matrices, not on the features, as in DGPs. We show that the deep inverse Wishart process gives superior performance to DGPs and infinite BNNs on standard fully-connected baselines.

  Structured prediction models aim at solving a type of problem where the output is a complex structure, rather than a single variable. Performing knowledge distillation for such models is not trivial due to their exponentially large output space. In this work, we propose an approach that is much simpler in its formulation and far more efficient for training than existing approaches. Specifically, we transfer the knowledge from a teacher model to its student model by locally matching their predictions on all sub-structures, instead of the whole output space. In this manner, we avoid adopting some time-consuming techniques like dynamic programming (DP) for decoding output structures, which permits parallel computation and makes the training process even faster in practice. Besides, it encourages the student model to better mimic the internal behavior of the teacher model. Experiments on two structured prediction tasks demonstrate that our approach outperforms previous methods and halves the time cost for one training epoch.

  Classifiers and rating scores are prone to implicitly codifying biases, which may be present in the training data, against protected classes (i.e., age, gender, or race). So it is important to understand how to design classifiers and scores that prevent discrimination in predictions. This paper develops computationally tractable algorithms for designing accurate but fair support vector machines (SVM's). Our approach imposes a constraint on the covariance matrices conditioned on each protected class, which leads to a nonconvex quadratic constraint in the SVM formulation. We develop iterative algorithms to compute fair linear and kernel SVM's, which solve a sequence of relaxations constructed using a spectral decomposition of the nonconvex constraint. Its effectiveness in achieving high prediction accuracy while ensuring fairness is shown through numerical experiments on several data sets.

  Continual learning based on data stream mining deals with ubiquitous sources of Big Data arriving at high-velocity and in real-time. Adaptive Random Forest ({\em ARF}) is a popular ensemble method used for continual learning due to its simplicity in combining adaptive leveraging bagging with fast random Hoeffding trees. While the default ARF size provides competitive accuracy, it is usually over-provisioned resulting in the use of additional classifiers that only contribute to increasing CPU and memory consumption with marginal impact in the overall accuracy. This paper presents Elastic Swap Random Forest ({\em ESRF}), a method for reducing the number of trees in the ARF ensemble while providing similar accuracy. {\em ESRF} extends {\em ARF} with two orthogonal components: 1) a swap component that splits learners into two sets based on their accuracy (only classifiers with the highest accuracy are used to make predictions); and 2) an elastic component for dynamically increasing or decreasing the number of classifiers in the ensemble. The experimental evaluation of {\em ESRF} and comparison with the original {\em ARF} shows how the two new components contribute to reducing the number of classifiers up to one third while providing almost the same accuracy, resulting in speed-ups in terms of per-sample execution time close to 3x.

  In past few years, linear rectified unit activation functions have shown its significance in the neural networks, surpassing the performance of sigmoid activations. RELU (Nair & Hinton, 2010), ELU (Clevert et al., 2015), PRELU (He et al., 2015), LRELU (Maas et al., 2013), SRELU (Jin et al., 2016), ThresholdedRELU, all these linear rectified activation functions have its own significance over others in some aspect. Most of the time these activation functions suffer from bias shift problem due to non-zero output mean, and high weight update problem in deep complex networks due to unit gradient, which results in slower training, and high variance in model prediction respectively. In this paper, we propose, "Thresholded exponential rectified linear unit" (TERELU) activation function that works better in alleviating in overfitting: large weight update problem. Along with alleviating overfitting problem, this method also gives good amount of non-linearity as compared to other linear rectifiers. We will show better performance on the various datasets using neural networks, considering TERELU activation method compared to other activations.

  Leveraging the framework of Optimal Transport, we introduce a new family of generative autoencoders with a learnable prior, called Symmetric Wasserstein Autoencoders (SWAEs). We propose to symmetrically match the joint distributions of the observed data and the latent representation induced by the encoder and the decoder. The resulting algorithm jointly optimizes the modelling losses in both the data and the latent spaces with the loss in the data space leading to the denoising effect. With the symmetric treatment of the data and the latent representation, the algorithm implicitly preserves the local structure of the data in the latent space. To further improve the quality of the latent representation, we incorporate a reconstruction loss into the objective, which significantly benefits both the generation and reconstruction. We empirically show the superior performance of SWAEs over the state-of-the-art generative autoencoders in terms of classification, reconstruction, and generation.

  It is well known that text compression can be achieved by predicting the next symbol in the stream of text data based on the history seen up to the current symbol. The better the prediction the more skewed the conditional probability distribution of the next symbol and the shorter the codeword that needs to be assigned to represent this next symbol. What about the opposite direction ? suppose we have a black box that can compress text stream. Can it be used to predict the next symbol in the stream ? We introduce a criterion based on the length of the compressed data and use it to predict the next symbol. We examine empirically the prediction error rate and its dependency on some compression parameters.

  We propose a method for sim-to-real robot learning which exploits simulator state information in a way that scales to many objects. We first train a pair of encoder networks to capture multi-object state information in a latent space. One of these encoders is a CNN, which enables our system to operate on RGB images in the real world; the other is a graph neural network (GNN) state encoder, which directly consumes a set of raw object poses and enables more accurate reward calculation and value estimation. Once trained, we use these encoders in a reinforcement learning algorithm to train image-based policies that can manipulate many objects. We evaluate our method on the task of pushing a collection of objects to desired tabletop regions. Compared to methods which rely only on images or use fixed-length state encodings, our method achieves higher success rates, performs well in the real world without fine tuning, and generalizes to different numbers and types of objects not seen during training.

  We propose a simple and easy to implement neural network compression algorithm that achieves results competitive with more complicated state-of-the-art methods. The key idea is to modify the original optimization problem by adding K independent Gaussian priors (corresponding to the k-means objective) over the network parameters to achieve parameter quantization, as well as an L1 penalty to achieve pruning. Unlike many existing quantization-based methods, our method uses hard clustering assignments of network parameters, which adds minimal change or overhead to standard network training. We also demonstrate experimentally that tying neural network parameters provides less gain in generalization performance than changing network architecture and connectivity patterns entirely.

  Reinforcement learning (RL) has been shown to be effective at learning control from experience. However, RL typically requires a large amount of online interaction with the environment. This limits its applicability to real-world settings, such as in robotics, where such interaction is expensive. In this work we investigate ways to minimize online interactions in a target task, by reusing a suboptimal policy we might have access to, for example from training on related prior tasks, or in simulation. To this end, we develop two RL algorithms that can speed up training by using not only the action distributions of teacher policies, but also data collected by such policies on the task at hand. We conduct a thorough experimental study of how to use suboptimal teachers on a challenging robotic manipulation benchmark on vision-based stacking with diverse objects. We compare our methods to offline, online, offline-to-online, and kickstarting RL algorithms. By doing so, we find that training on data from both the teacher and student, enables the best performance for limited data budgets. We examine how to best allocate a limited data budget -- on the target task -- between the teacher and the student policy, and report experiments using varying budgets, two teachers with different degrees of suboptimality, and five stacking tasks that require a diverse set of behaviors. Our analysis, both in simulation and in the real world, shows that our approach is the best across data budgets, while standard offline RL from teacher rollouts is surprisingly effective when enough data is given.

  The most common technique for generating B-mode ultrasound (US) images is delay and sum (DAS) beamforming, where the signals received at the transducer array are sampled before an appropriate delay is applied. This necessitates sampling rates exceeding the Nyquist rate and the use of a large number of antenna elements to ensure sufficient image quality. Recently we proposed methods to reduce the sampling rate and the array size relying on image recovery using iterative algorithms, based on compressed sensing (CS) and the finite rate of innovation (FRI) frameworks. Iterative algorithms typically require a large number of iterations, making them difficult to use in real-time. Here, we propose a reconstruction method from sub-Nyquist samples in the time and spatial domain, that is based on unfolding the ISTA algorithm, resulting in an efficient and interpretable deep network. The inputs to our network are the subsampled beamformed signals after summation and delay in the frequency domain, requiring only a subset of the US signal to be stored for recovery. Our method allows reducing the number of array elements, sampling rate, and computational time while ensuring high quality imaging performance. Using \emph{in vivo} data we demonstrate that the proposed method yields high-quality images while reducing the data volume traditionally used up to 36 times. In terms of image resolution and contrast, our technique outperforms previously suggested methods as well as DAS and minimum-variance (MV) beamforming, paving the way to real-time applicable recovery methods.

  Many important machine learning applications involve regularized nonconvex bi-level optimization. However, the existing gradient-based bi-level optimization algorithms cannot handle nonconvex or nonsmooth regularizers, and they suffer from a high computation complexity in nonconvex bi-level optimization. In this work, we study a proximal gradient-type algorithm that adopts the approximate implicit differentiation (AID) scheme for nonconvex bi-level optimization with possibly nonconvex and nonsmooth regularizers. In particular, the algorithm applies the Nesterov's momentum to accelerate the computation of the implicit gradient involved in AID. We provide a comprehensive analysis of the global convergence properties of this algorithm through identifying its intrinsic potential function. In particular, we formally establish the convergence of the model parameters to a critical point of the bi-level problem, and obtain an improved computation complexity $\mathcal{O}(\kappa^{3.5}\epsilon^{-2})$ over the state-of-the-art result. Moreover, we analyze the asymptotic convergence rates of this algorithm under a class of local nonconvex geometries characterized by a {\L}ojasiewicz-type gradient inequality. Experiment on hyper-parameter optimization demonstrates the effectiveness of our algorithm.

  Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic has changed various aspects of people's lives and behaviors. At this stage, there are no other ways to control the natural progression of the disease than adopting mitigation strategies such as wearing masks, watching distance, and washing hands. Moreover, at this time of social distancing, social media plays a key role in connecting people and providing a platform for expressing their feelings. In this study, we tap into social media to surveil the uptake of mitigation and detection strategies, and capture issues and concerns about the pandemic. In particular, we explore the research question, "how much can be learned regarding the public uptake of mitigation strategies and concerns about COVID-19 pandemic by using natural language processing on Reddit posts?" After extracting COVID-related posts from the four largest subreddit communities of North Carolina over six months, we performed NLP-based preprocessing to clean the noisy data. We employed a custom Named-entity Recognition (NER) system and a Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA) method for topic modeling on a Reddit corpus. We observed that 'mask', 'flu', and 'testing' are the most prevalent named-entities for "Personal Protective Equipment", "symptoms", and "testing" categories, respectively. We also observed that the most discussed topics are related to testing, masks, and employment. The mitigation measures are the most prevalent theme of discussion across all subreddits.

  Deep learning has introduced several learning-based methods to recognize breast tumours and presents high applicability in breast cancer diagnostics. It has presented itself as a practical installment in Computer-Aided Diagnostic (CAD) systems to further assist radiologists in diagnostics for different modalities. A deep learning network trained on images provided by hospitals or public databases can perform classification, detection, and segmentation of lesion types. Significant progress has been made in recognizing tumours on 2D images but recognizing 3D images remains a frontier so far. The interconnection of deep learning networks between different fields of study help propels discoveries for more efficient, accurate, and robust networks. In this review paper, the following topics will be explored: (i) theory and application of deep learning, (ii) progress of 2D, 2.5D, and 3D CNN approaches in breast tumour recognition from a performance metric perspective, and (iii) challenges faced in CNN approaches.

  Accurately forecasting urban development and its environmental and climate impacts critically depends on realistic models of the spatial structure of the built environment, and of its dependence on key factors such as population and economic development. Scenario simulation and sensitivity analysis, i.e., predicting how changes in underlying factors at a given location affect urbanization outcomes at other locations, is currently not achievable at a large scale with traditional urban growth models, which are either too simplistic, or depend on detailed locally-collected socioeconomic data that is not available in most places. Here we develop a framework to estimate, purely from globally-available remote-sensing data and without parametric assumptions, the spatial sensitivity of the (\textit{static}) rate of change of urban sprawl to key macroeconomic development indicators. We formulate this spatial regression problem as an image-to-image translation task using conditional generative adversarial networks (GANs), where the gradients necessary for comparative static analysis are provided by the backpropagation algorithm used to train the model. This framework allows to naturally incorporate physical constraints, e.g., the inability to build over water bodies. To validate the spatial structure of model-generated built environment distributions, we use spatial statistics commonly used in urban form analysis. We apply our method to a novel dataset comprising of layers on the built environment, nightlighs measurements (a proxy for economic development and energy use), and population density for the world's most populous 15,000 cities.

  We describe an explainable AI saliency map method for use with deep convolutional neural networks (CNN) that is much more efficient than popular fine-resolution gradient methods. It is also quantitatively similar or better in accuracy. Our technique works by measuring information at the end of each network scale which is then combined into a single saliency map. We describe how saliency measures can be made more efficient by exploiting Saliency Map Order Equivalence. We visualize individual scale/layer contributions by using a Layer Ordered Visualization of Information. This provides an interesting comparison of scale information contributions within the network not provided by other saliency map methods. Using our method instead of Guided Backprop, coarse-resolution class activation methods such as Grad-CAM and Grad-CAM++ seem to yield demonstrably superior results without sacrificing speed. This will make fine-resolution saliency methods feasible on resource limited platforms such as robots, cell phones, low-cost industrial devices, astronomy and satellite imagery.

  Gravitational wave (GW) detection is now commonplace and as the sensitivity of the global network of GW detectors improves, we will observe $\mathcal{O}(100)$s of transient GW events per year. The current methods used to estimate their source parameters employ optimally sensitive but computationally costly Bayesian inference approaches where typical analyses have taken between 6 hours and 5 days. For binary neutron star and neutron star black hole systems prompt counterpart electromagnetic (EM) signatures are expected on timescales of 1 second -- 1 minute and the current fastest method for alerting EM follow-up observers, can provide estimates in $\mathcal{O}(1)$ minute, on a limited range of key source parameters. Here we show that a conditional variational autoencoder pre-trained on binary black hole signals can return Bayesian posterior probability estimates. The training procedure need only be performed once for a given prior parameter space and the resulting trained machine can then generate samples describing the posterior distribution $\sim 6$ orders of magnitude faster than existing techniques.

  A variety of representation learning approaches have been investigated for reinforcement learning; much less attention, however, has been given to investigating the utility of sparse coding. Outside of reinforcement learning, sparse coding representations have been widely used, with non-convex objectives that result in discriminative representations. In this work, we develop a supervised sparse coding objective for policy evaluation. Despite the non-convexity of this objective, we prove that all local minima are global minima, making the approach amenable to simple optimization strategies. We empirically show that it is key to use a supervised objective, rather than the more straightforward unsupervised sparse coding approach. We compare the learned representations to a canonical fixed sparse representation, called tile-coding, demonstrating that the sparse coding representation outperforms a wide variety of tilecoding representations.

  Berry et al. (1997) initiated the development of the infinite arms bandit problem. They derived a regret lower bound of all allocation strategies for Bernoulli rewards with uniform priors, and proposed strategies based on success runs. Bonald and Prouti\`{e}re (2013) proposed a two-target algorithm that achieves the regret lower bound, and extended optimality to Bernoulli rewards with general priors. We present here a confidence bound target (CBT) algorithm that achieves optimality for rewards that are bounded above. For each arm we construct a confidence bound and compare it against each other and a target value to determine if the arm should be sampled further. The target value depends on the assumed priors of the arm means. In the absence of information on the prior, the target value is determined empirically. Numerical studies here show that CBT is versatile and outperforms its competitors.

  In studying the expressiveness of neural networks, an important question is whether there are functions which can only be approximated by sufficiently deep networks, assuming their size is bounded. However, for constant depths, existing results are limited to depths $2$ and $3$, and achieving results for higher depths has been an important open question. In this paper, we focus on feedforward ReLU networks, and prove fundamental barriers to proving such results beyond depth $4$, by reduction to open problems and natural-proof barriers in circuit complexity. To show this, we study a seemingly unrelated problem of independent interest: Namely, whether there are polynomially-bounded functions which require super-polynomial weights in order to approximate with constant-depth neural networks. We provide a negative and constructive answer to that question, by showing that if a function can be approximated by a polynomially-sized, constant depth $k$ network with arbitrarily large weights, it can also be approximated by a polynomially-sized, depth $3k+3$ network, whose weights are polynomially bounded.

  Deep learning-based classifiers have substantially improved recognition of malware samples. However, these classifiers can be vulnerable to adversarial input perturbations. Any vulnerability in malware classifiers poses significant threats to the platforms they defend. Therefore, to create stronger defense models against malware, we must understand the patterns in input perturbations caused by an adversary. This survey paper presents a comprehensive study on adversarial machine learning for android malware classifiers. We first present an extensive background in building a machine learning classifier for android malware, covering both image-based and text-based feature extraction approaches. Then, we examine the pattern and advancements in the state-of-the-art research in evasion attacks and defenses. Finally, we present guidelines for designing robust malware classifiers and enlist research directions for the future.

  We investigate the non-identifiability issues associated with bidirectional adversarial training for joint distribution matching. Within a framework of conditional entropy, we propose both adversarial and non-adversarial approaches to learn desirable matched joint distributions for unsupervised and supervised tasks. We unify a broad family of adversarial models as joint distribution matching problems. Our approach stabilizes learning of unsupervised bidirectional adversarial learning methods. Further, we introduce an extension for semi-supervised learning tasks. Theoretical results are validated in synthetic data and real-world applications.

  Welcome to WeaSuL 2021, the First Workshop on Weakly Supervised Learning, co-located with ICLR 2021. In this workshop, we want to advance theory, methods and tools for allowing experts to express prior coded knowledge for automatic data annotations that can be used to train arbitrary deep neural networks for prediction. The ICLR 2021 Workshop on Weak Supervision aims at advancing methods that help modern machine-learning methods to generalize from knowledge provided by experts, in interaction with observable (unlabeled) data. In total, 15 papers were accepted. All the accepted contributions are listed in these Proceedings.

  This work presents a detailed comparison of the performance of deep learning models such as convolutional neural networks (CNN), long short-term memory (LSTM), gated recurrent units (GRU), their hybrids, and a selection of shallow learning classifiers for sentiment analysis of Arabic reviews. Additionally, the comparison includes state-of-the-art models such as the transformer architecture and the araBERT pre-trained model. The datasets used in this study are multi-dialect Arabic hotel and book review datasets, which are some of the largest publicly available datasets for Arabic reviews. Results showed deep learning outperforming shallow learning for binary and multi-label classification, in contrast with the results of similar work reported in the literature. This discrepancy in outcome was caused by dataset size as we found it to be proportional to the performance of deep learning models. The performance of deep and shallow learning techniques was analyzed in terms of accuracy and F1 score. The best performing shallow learning technique was Random Forest followed by Decision Tree, and AdaBoost. The deep learning models performed similarly using a default embedding layer, while the transformer model performed best when augmented with araBERT.

  Adaptive control approaches yield high-performance controllers when a precise system model or suitable parametrizations of the controller are available. Existing data-driven approaches for adaptive control mostly augment standard model-based methods with additional information about uncertainties in the dynamics or about disturbances. In this work, we propose a purely data-driven, model-free approach for adaptive control. Tuning low-level controllers based solely on system data raises concerns on the underlying algorithm safety and computational performance. Thus, our approach builds on GoOSE, an algorithm for safe and sample-efficient Bayesian optimization. We introduce several computational and algorithmic modifications in GoOSE that enable its practical use on a rotational motion system. We numerically demonstrate for several types of disturbances that our approach is sample efficient, outperforms constrained Bayesian optimization in terms of safety, and achieves the performance optima computed by grid evaluation. We further demonstrate the proposed adaptive control approach experimentally on a rotational motion system.

  Many algorithms have been proposed in the last ten years for the discovery of dynamic communities. However, these methods are seldom compared between themselves. In this article, we propose a generator of dynamic graphs with planted evolving community structure, as a benchmark to compare and evaluate such algorithms. Unlike previously proposed benchmarks, it is able to specify any desired evolving community structure through a descriptive language, and then to generate the corresponding progressively evolving network. We empirically evaluate six existing algorithms for dynamic community detection in terms of instantaneous and longitudinal similarity with the planted ground truth, smoothness of dynamic partitions, and scalability. We notably observe different types of weaknesses depending on their approach to ensure smoothness, namely Glitches, Oversimplification and Identity loss. Although no method arises as a clear winner, we observe clear differences between methods, and we identified the fastest, those yielding the most smoothed or the most accurate solutions at each step.

  The vast majority of convergence rates analysis for stochastic gradient methods in the literature focus on convergence in expectation, whereas trajectory-wise almost sure convergence is clearly important to ensure that any instantiation of the stochastic algorithms would converge with probability one. Here we provide a unified almost sure convergence rates analysis for stochastic gradient descent (SGD), stochastic heavy-ball (SHB), and stochastic Nesterov's accelerated gradient (SNAG) methods. We show, for the first time, that the almost sure convergence rates obtained for these stochastic gradient methods on strongly convex functions, are arbitrarily close to their optimal convergence rates possible. For non-convex objective functions, we not only show that a weighted average of the squared gradient norms converges to zero almost surely, but also the last iterates of the algorithms. We further provide last-iterate almost sure convergence rates analysis for stochastic gradient methods on weakly convex smooth functions, in contrast with most existing results in the literature that only provide convergence in expectation for a weighted average of the iterates.

  Thanks to the use of convolution and pooling layers, convolutional neural networks were for a long time thought to be shift-invariant. However, recent works have shown that the output of a CNN can change significantly with small shifts in input: a problem caused by the presence of downsampling (stride) layers. The existing solutions rely either on data augmentation or on anti-aliasing, both of which have limitations and neither of which enables perfect shift invariance. Additionally, the gains obtained from these methods do not extend to image patterns not seen during training. To address these challenges, we propose adaptive polyphase sampling (APS), a simple sub-sampling scheme that allows convolutional neural networks to achieve 100% consistency in classification performance under shifts, without any loss in accuracy. With APS, the networks exhibit perfect consistency to shifts even before training, making it the first approach that makes convolutional neural networks truly shift-invariant.

